{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-BoldOblique;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f5\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green119\blue204;\red118\green118\blue118;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c46667\c80000;\csgenericrgb\c46275\c46275\c46275;}
{\info
{\title TECH 50 AWARDS NOMINEES SELECTED}}\vieww12240\viewh15440\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 No Headline In Original
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 March 21, 2021 Sunday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 TWO STAR EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2021 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0ASECTION; Pg. A-8
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a01798 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Compiled by Dan Majors Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 A number of smaller drug stores and medical practices across Pennsylvania were grumbling last week when the state Department of Health announced - in order to get as many people vaccinated as possible in the shortest amount of time - first doses of COVID-19 vaccines will be funneled to big hospitals and medical centers.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The decision, passed along in a Thursday email, favors arenas, ballparks and other large venues over your corner drugstore or neighborhood doctor.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Pushback to the new policy was swift, including from Hilltop Pharmacy in Allentown, which has administered just under 12,000 shots since the vaccine became available.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The policy shift, which comes as eligibility criteria for getting the shots expands, shrinks the number of vaccine providers in Pennsylvania by more than two-thirds - from 780 sites in February to just 234.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "It's mind-boggling," Hilltop Pharmacy manager Alexandria Lavella told staff writer Kris B. Mamula. "How did we get cut? It makes you wonder what the standards were. It's not pretty. We're all very deeply hurt."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Jay Adzema, the second-generation owner of Adzema Pharmacy in McCandless, which had given out 600 shots, was outraged, too.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Pennsylvania government is not in the drug distribution business and has no business in it," he said. "The common people are not being served. It's very disgusting."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 State officials ask for better jab count
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Staff writer Sean D. Hamill was wondering about the vaccination rates among staff and residents in nursing, personal care and assisted living homes.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Turns out, so is the state.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Health department officials on Wednesday said they will now require the state's nursing homes to report vaccination counts this week.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Acting state Health Secretary Alison Beam said the goal of the "survey" of nursing homes is to help the state "effectively manage vaccine supply for all current and future residents and staff" so the state can figure out where it needs to do more vaccination clinics.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The information also is relevant because of the March 10 guidance from the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services that allowed nursing homes to open up to visitors again. If the facilities are going to reopen to visitors, the state wants to make sure those there are vaccinated.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Gradual return to graduations
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Staff writer Andrew Goldstein reported the Pittsburgh Public Schools district plans to hold in-person commencement ceremonies this June for its graduating seniors.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Details are still being worked out, but the events will be held at Petersen Events Center in Oakland, district spokeswoman Ebony Pugh said Friday afternoon.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The district canceled commencement ceremonies in 2020 because of the COVID-19 pandemic; however, each high school had a drive-thru celebration.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Ms. Pugh said the district is determining the feasibility of other in-person events as its schools are set to reopen to select students next month for the first time since March 2020.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The timeline for when all children will be able to return to their schools is not complete, Ms. Pugh said, but Superintendent Anthony Hamlet said last week he expected all city students to be able to attend classes in person this academic year.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Eid al-Fitr added to school calendar
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 While we don't know a lot about how schools will operate in the coming school year, we do know teachers and students will get another vacation day.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 For the first time, Eid al-Fitr will be a vacation day on the Pittsburgh Public Schools calendar.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The district said it decided to make the Muslim holiday, which means "feast of fast-breaking," a vacation day after receiving input from families.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Terry Kennedy, the board's second vice president, credited former school board candidate Ghadah Makoshi for requesting the district make the holiday a vacation day and said it was "a very positive addition to our calendar."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I think it's the right thing to do for our Muslim families," Ms. Kennedy said Wednesday evening. "Certainly, they deserve to be able to observe their holy days without having to worry about what is going on with school."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Eid al-Fitr is the first of the two major Muslim holidays, the second being Eid al-Adha, according to the Pittsburgh chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Pitt wants to be in person in fall
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The University of Pittsburgh notified its students Thursday it expects most fall classes will be held in person.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Staff writer Bill Schackner quoted Pitt Chancellor Patrick Gallagher as saying the return, which applies to 34,000 students in Oakland and at four regional campuses, comes with a warning:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "First, however, two critical disclaimers: 1) We are still working many details out; and 2) Our plans are subject to change and will change as needed to address our reality come fall."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Gallagher, like leaders of several other area public and private campuses, said the outlook right now is promising. That follows similar statements from several state-owned universities and, more recently, Robert Morris University and Point Park University.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Penn State University, meanwhile, notified its campus this week it is planning for an in-person May commencement ceremony with an option for online participation.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Putting two really big heads together
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Bill Schackner also reported Pitt and Carnegie Mellon University will jointly operate a center aimed at curbing extremism.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The operation is called the Collaboratory Against Hate - Research and Action Center, and it will eventually include dozens of researchers, who will draw from the combined expertise at both universities in such areas as computer science, 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone , social sciences, psychology, psychiatry and the law.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The goal is to "better understand and combat hatred based on race, ethnicity, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation and other prejudices," the universities said in a joint statement issued Wednesday.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "The spread of extremist hate is undeniably insidious and increasingly dangerous. We have witnessed its violent consequences in our own community, including the horrific attack at the Tree of Life synagogue building, and have also seen this epidemic pose an existential threat to our nation's democracy," said CMU President Farnam Jahanian.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In addition to using campus expertise, the center will engage with other universities and community groups - including those representing social groups that are the targets of extremism - as well as social media platforms.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Across the U.S., individual centers focus on aspects of the problem, but the Carnegie Mellon and Pitt center will be distinct in offering a holistic approach to understand the messages and how they spread insidiously and escalate, officials said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Commission backs redevelopment plan
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The plans for the involvement of minority- and women-owned businesses in the redevelopment of the former Civic Arena site have received an endorsement from the Pittsburgh Equal Opportunity Review Commission.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Staff writer Mark Belko reported the Penguins and developer Buccini Pollin announced Thursday their minority and women business enterprise participation plan had been unanimously approved by the commission.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The plan sets as goals 30% minority business enterprise (MBE) and 15% women's business enterprise (WBE) participation in the $1 billion arena redevelopment, which is expected to include a mix of offices, residential units, retail and entertainment.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "This is a historic day for the lower Hill redevelopment project because it is the first independent confirmation that we are achieving our goals for M/WBE participation, as we have committed under the Community Collaboration and Implementation Plan (CCIP)," said Penguins President and CEO David Morehouse, referring to a community benefits agreement with the neighborhood.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 You can do a search for more of the details
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Another business you might have heard of - Google - is expanding its presence in the Bakery Square development in Larimer.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Staff writer Lauren Rosenblatt reported Google will add three floors to its current space as part of a $7 billion nationwide investment that aims to create more offices, data centers and jobs.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I believe a lasting economic recovery will come from local communities, and the people and small businesses that give them life. Google wants to be part of that recovery," CEO Sundar Pichai wrote in a news release Thursday.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Google has not determined which teams in Pittsburgh will occupy the new space. Among many different products, the engineering teams locally work on cloud platforms, artificial intelligence, machine learning, data center software, commerce and Google shopping and ads quality and policy.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 There are 84,000 Google workers employed throughout the U.S., including 760 at the Bakery Square location, according to a news release announcing the expansion.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Google has always been a wonderful community partner, and their latest investment in Pittsburgh is yet another great sign for our residents and the future of our city," Mayor Bill Peduto said in a statement.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Help for low-income, cash riders on way
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 A Port Authority consultant has come up with some ways to address concerns that low-income, cash riders pay more than others. But staff writer Ed Blazina reported advocates for those riders say the changes proposed Thursday "don't go far enough" because cash customers can't take advantage of the changes.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Recommendations call for increasing fares 25 cents to $2.75 for prepaid ConnectCard users who don't use transfers and replacing transfer fees with a three-hour window during which riders can take as many rides as they want with no extra charge. In addition, the time for using monthly and weekly passes won't start until the first time they are used rather than the beginning of the month or week.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 That won't help cash riders, who already pay $2.75 plus additional full fares for transfers, until the authority can get more ticket machines and ConnectCard dispensers in low-income neighborhoods, said Laura Wiens, executive director of Pittsburghers for Public Transit. Riders who use cash can't take advantage of free transfers because, as the authority no longer uses paper transfers, there would be no way for an operator to know they already paid for a trip within three hours.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "That's a big problem," Ms. Wiens said. "We know that cash customers are being penalized in multiple ways. If they are not addressing that, they are not addressing the inequities at all."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Authority CEO Katharine Eagan Kelleman presented the recommendations Thursday to the board's finance committee, which recommended the full board approve the start of a public comment period on the proposed changes when it meets next week. That 40-day period, through May 5, will include several virtual meetings and could include an in-person meeting if COVID-19 restrictions are reduced.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The agency would like to begin using the new fare structure in July.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Emily Matthews/Post-Gazette: Patti Gerhauser, of Mars and a Navy veteran, hangs from a basketball hoop after putting in a new net while Aryanna Hunter, of Murrysville and an Army veteran, takes a photo of her during a service event with The Mission Continues and Veterans Leadership Program on Sunday, March 14, 2021, at Library Street Basketball Courts in Braddock. The group cleaned trash and overgrown brush from the area, built four benches, and put new nets in the basketball hoops. The group plans to return in May to repaint the lines on the court and to paint the benches. (Emily Matthews/Post-Gazette) #standalone #weekinreview0321
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Pam Panchak/Post-Gazette: Skylar King, of Turtle Creek, plants spring flowers Thursday along Smithfield Street in Downtown.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Andrew Rush/Post-Gazette: Joe Backstrom, left, and Lyle Milner, of Allegheny City Electric, install a solar-powered light Monday near a pedestrian path along Corrigan Drive in South Park.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: Sheltered under an umbrella, Sharon Griffin, of the Hill District, waits for a bus in the pouring rain Thursday along Bedford Avenue in the Hill District.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Alexandra Wimley/Post-Gazette: Stuart Rattner, of Fox Chapel, who works with Uncover Squirrel Hill, removes a snowflake light from a light pole Tuesday on Forbes Avenue in Squirrel Hill.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Matt Freed/Post-Gazette: Fans take in a St. Patrick's Day spring training game between the Pirates and the Tampa Bay Rays on Wednesday at LECOM Park in Bradenton, Fla.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0March 21, 2021
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 CMU, PITT CREATE CENTER TO STUDY, HALT EXTREMISM
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 March 18, 2021 Thursday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2021 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0EDUCATION; Pg. A-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a01000 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Bill Schackner, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Two-plus years after a deadly Pittsburgh synagogue attack drove home the toll of extremist hate, the city's two leading research universities are creating what they hope is a unique approach to thwarting a rise in extremism.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh on Wednesday announced they will jointly operate the Collaboratory Against Hate - Research and Action Center. Its aim not only is to study extremist views and activity but also to "develop effective tools that inhibit hate's creation, growth and destructive consequences," stated both universities in announcing the scholarly venture.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The center, and what will eventually be dozens of researchers, will draw from the combined expertise at both universities in such areas as computer science, 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone , social sciences, psychology, psychiatry and the law.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In addition to using campus expertise, the center will engage with other universities and community groups, including those representing social groups that are the targets of extremism, as well as social media platforms.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The goal is to "better understand and combat hatred based on race, ethnicity, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation and other prejudices," the joint statement said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "The spread of extremist hate is undeniably insidious and increasingly dangerous. We have witnessed its violent consequences in our own community, including the horrific attack at the Tree of Life synagogue building, and have also seen this epidemic pose an existential threat to our nation's democracy," said Carnegie Mellon President Farnam Jahanian.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We've launched Collaboratory Against Hate with a clear purpose: to mobilize our experts and assets together so that we can better understand and address extreme hate - in its many iterations and implications - across the world," said Pitt Chancellor Patrick Gallagher.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The physical manifestations of intolerance range from property damage to injuries - as seen in a spike in attacks against Asian Americans and other groups of late - to deaths.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 It is playing out on city streets, in houses of worship and even in the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol, in many cases linked to views spread on social media.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The center's genesis is rooted in soul-searching after the Tree of Life tragedy in Squirrel Hill that rocked the nation.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Across the U.S., the Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks and reports on hate crimes, said it was following more than 800 hate groups as of 2020, including three dozen in Pennsylvania, from anti-Muslim and skinhead organizations to the Proud Boys.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In 2019 and 2020, there were 11,208 incidents of extremism or anti-Semitism in the U.S., according to the Anti-Defamation League, another organization that tracks hate activity. It said extremists killed at least 17 people in the U.S. last year in 15 separate incidents, a total down from the previous two years but not indicative of a decrease in activity.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The new center will be led by Kathleen Blee, sociology professor and dean of Pitt's Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences, and Lorrie Cranor, director and professor in security and privacy technologies in CMU's CyLab.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 While not providing a dollar figure, both women said the center has "significant" startup funding from the two universities. For now, it will operate without a physical space as it builds out its roster of scholars.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We expect to be working with dozens of faculty across both universities who will be participating" said Ms. Cranor.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 There has been "a clear escalation and acceleration of extremist hate especially in online spaces," said Ms. Blee.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "They've made the distribution, mobilization and spread of online hate much harder to monitor and prosecute. It's also more difficult to decipher the extent to which virtual communities of hate are simply reinforcing each other or being pushed by organized extremist organizations," Ms. Blee said. "That's created challenges for researchers and law enforcement who are trying to understand how these groups work and how to intervene."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Across the U.S., individual centers focus on aspects of the problem, but the Carnegie Mellon and Pitt center will be distinct in offering a holistic approach to understand the messages, how they spread insidiously and escalate, officials said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Carnegie Mellon has computer researchers looking at machine learning, analyzing networks and understanding how attitudes are promulgated, said Ms. Cranor. Others in disciplines such as English and linguistics can drill down on messages, while public policy experts can develop potential remedies.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 On Pitt's sprawling campus, expertise stretches from the UPMC Western Psychiatric Hospital to the university's law school, which can guide those policy remedies to ensure they pass legal muster, said Ms. Blee.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Acts of violence can be years in the making, as attitudes are twisted and anger builds.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In Pittsburgh, that became clear on Oct. 27, 2018, as a gunman attacked the Tree of Life / Or L'Simcha synagogue in Squirrel Hill, leaving 11 worshippers from three congregations dead and six others wounded, including police officers.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The idea for this center came from a lengthy partnership between Carnegie Mellon's President Emeritus Jared Cohon and Pitt's Chancellor Emeritus Mark Nordenberg. Both served on a committee established by the Jewish Federation of Greater Pittsburgh following the synagogue massacre and pondered ways to address such violence.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 They worked with faculty at both universities who made the center a reality.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Before the deadly attack at the Tree of Life synagogue, I rather naively assumed that love always would triumph over hate," said Mr. Nordenberg. "As I came to learn more about the powerful tools that are being used to accelerate the spread of hate, however, it seemed clear that in today's world, love needs a helping hand."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Cohon sees the center as advancing that objective.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I'm enthusiastic because, as with so many other partnerships throughout our history, CMU and Pitt complement each other very well," he said.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Bill Schackner: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 bschackner@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone , 412-263-1977 and on Twitter: @Bschackner.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0March 20, 2021
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 PA. CORRECTIONS CHIEF SAYS FLAWED CORONAVIRUS DATA 'UNACCEPTABLE'; DOC SECRETARY PROMISES TO CORRECT PRISON REPORTING SYSTEM
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 February 2, 2021 Tuesday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2021 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0LOCAL; Pg. B-2
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a01302 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Joseph Darius Jaafari Spotlight PA
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 HARRISBURG - The Department of Corrections is reporting flawed data to keep inmates, families and public officials informed about COVID-19 in its prisons, raising questions about the agency's ability to accurately track the extent of the outbreak.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 A five-month analysis of prison data by Spotlight PA found large fluctuations in the number of tests administered and unexplained changes to the death count. The findings were confirmed by a California researcher who was also tracking the department's data and had noticed problems.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "It's one thing to have little mistakes here and there, but if it's month after month that there's many data reporting problems, it definitely causes me pause," said Hope Johnson, a data fellow at UCLA's COVID Behind Bars Project, which tracks COVID-19 infections in prisons nationwide.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In an announcement Friday, sent moments before this story was published, Corrections Secretary John Wetzel said he was taking action to fix the problems.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "In our haste to get information out to the public, we put a process in place that involved a single individual pulling data from multiple sources manually every day," Mr. Wetzel said, adding, "It's unacceptable to continue in this manner, and I need to both accept responsibility for it and address it permanently moving forward."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Wetzel said the data dashboard would be taken offline for 30 days while the department updates its reporting system and prepares for the addition of new data points related to the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. He said new automated reporting would improve the process.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In previous statements to Spotlight PA, department officials had acknowledged flaws in the data and said they had recently transferred responsibility for tracking infections to their 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  experts, who would undertake a thorough evaluation to determine how to improve reporting.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The department declined to comment on why data experts were not originally in charge of tracking, or when the change was made.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Our office of Research and Statistics is taking over the daily management of the dashboard, and they will be doing a deep dive into what is being collected and how best to communicate that information," a department spokesperson, Maria Bivens, said in an email statement.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 National researchers said Pennsylvania officials deserve some credit for, on the whole, being more transparent than prison systems in other states. And those advocating for more prisoner releases said the data is clear enough to know some people would be safer if released.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Others, however, said there has been a double standard about widespread concern and scrutiny of statewide coronavirus data reporting by the Department of Health, but not nearly as much attention paid to problems with data tracked and reported by corrections officials.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "There are certain individuals who don't care that the data is crap," state Sen. Katie Muth, D-Montgomery, said. "And that they're dying in the prison system. They're fine letting that happen."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The department has documented more than 13,200 positive cases and up to 101 deaths among staff and inmates at its 24 prisons. The Spotlight PA review found tests are being double-counted and disappearing, while deaths are sometimes counted but then erased.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Department officials have said in statements to Spotlight PA and before state lawmakers that removing data was because of errors in duplicate testing. But questions still remain on when and how many prisoners actually had the virus, were negative or recovered.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In an emailed statement to Spotlight PA in December, Ms. Bivens, the department spokesperson, said the numbers published online now indicate the total number of inmates tested, not how many tests were performed. As of Friday, however, the data dashboard said 62,980 inmates have been tested. The department's most recent population data for December said it only housed 40,766 inmates, a discrepancy of nearly 22,000 extra people.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Department officials declined to explain the difference.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Bret Bucklen, the lead data analyst for the department, said in an interview he couldn't fully make sense of the numbers presented on the department's dashboard and has been tasked with reviewing some of the information to improve accuracy.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Bucklen has used the department's data to challenge those pushing to release prisoners early through Gov. Tom Wolf's temporary reprieve program. In a Jan. 7 posting to Twitter, he wrote in part, "There are several data points to suggest that in PA prison is safer than the community from COVID."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 But Mr. Wetzel, the corrections secretary, used the same data earlier this month to advocate to Senate Democrats for the opposite: to release more inmates through legislation in order to create safer distance between inmates inside.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The department has reduced its total prison population by 6,116 since the start of the pandemic through early release or parole. Another 120 people were released after the governor signed the temporary reprieve program, which fell far short of initial expectations and what some said was needed to safely social distance within prison facilities.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I thank God, frankly, for a 6,500-inmate reduction, or these numbers of deaths and infections would be significantly worse," Mr. Wetzel said at a committee hearing hosted by Senate Democrats. "But let me be very clear, we need further population reduction."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Wetzel said restrictions around reprieve and early parole have increased the ratio of prisoners who are more at risk of dying of the coronavirus, noting that as of now, 47% of the state's inmate population is medically vulnerable.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Sean Damon - the organizing director for Amistad Law Project, a prisoner legal advocacy group - has been compiling prison data in the state and said, "It's startling to see the lack of accountability."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The data problems have compounded concern among families desperate to understand what's happening to their loved ones inside prisons. The department recently doubled down on its policy not to inform family when loved ones get sick or die unless they are listed as the emergency contact on department paperwork, which is often as old as an inmate's prison term.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Sharon Murchison, whose husband and two brothers are incarcerated at SCI Chester and SCI Huntingdon, said she relies on the dashboard for information but is never certain about what's happening.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I check every chance I get, and the information is so incorrect," she said. "I can recall going back and forth and looking at it and going, 'something is off.'"
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Other researchers who have been collecting the state's prison infection data said it's better than some other states but that officials need to rectify inaccuracies and let taxpayers know when and why they do it.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "It just creates a downstream effect of data inaccuracy, " said Lauren Brinkley-Rubinstein, co-lead investigator and co-founder for the research consortium the COVID Prison Project. "If they're not noting inaccuracies and giving the public that level of transparency and data standardization, then the data can be really meaningless because it just doesn't make sense."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Still, some lawmakers and advocacy groups say the inaccuracies do not take away from the fact that prisoners are endangered.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Sen. Sharif Street, D-Philadelphia, has drafted legislation to release people from prison who are medically vulnerable. Despite the data being hard to understand, Mr. Street said he wasn't as concerned about accuracy because he knows the severity within the prison system.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "If I needed to be convinced, then that would be true, but I don't need to be convinced," he said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Spotlight PA is an independent, non-partisan newsroom powered by The Philadelphia Inquirer in partnership with PennLive/The Patriot-News, TribLIVE/Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, and WITF Public Media. Sign up for our free newsletters.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Jose F. Moreno/Philadelphia Inquirer: Sharon Murchison, of Philadelphia, who has a husband and two brothers who are incarcerated, recently testified at a hearing about the Pennsylvania Department of Corrections officials using faulty data to justify keeping prisoners longer behind bars.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0February 3, 2021
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 ALLEGHENY COUNTY REPORTS 135 DEATHS, BLAMES STATE BACKLOG FOR SHARP SPIKE
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 January 29, 2021 Friday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2021 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0LOCAL; Pg. B-6
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0611 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 A backlog of data at the state level meant Allegheny County saw a sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 deaths reported Thursday, the county Health Department said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In the most recent 24-hour period, the county reported 135 new deaths - significantly higher than the eight deaths reported Wednesday, which the county attributed to a backlog in the state's Electronic Death Reporting System.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The latest deaths occurred between Dec. 16 and Jan. 24. Among them were one person in his or her 40s, three in their 50s, 11 in their 60s, 29 in their 70s, 46 in their 80s, 40 in their 90s and five in their 100s.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 According to the county, 70 of the 135 deaths were associated with long-term care facilities.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 With the latest data, the county has reported 1,412 deaths since the pandemic began in March.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The county also reported 358 new cases, increasing its total to 68,445, and 4,199 hospitalizations as a result of the virus.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In Pennsylvania, 198 new deaths and 6,036 new cases were reported by the state Department of Health. With the increases, the state has recorded 824,405 cases and 21,303 deaths. More than half the deaths - 11,170 - are associated with nursing or personal care homes.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Health Department said 3,768 people were hospitalized throughout the state, with 759 being treated in intensive care units.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 So far, the state has administered 837,817 doses of COVID-19 vaccine to 678,618 people - 519,419 have received a first dose, and 159,199 of them have received a second dose.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Carnegie Mellon University on Thursday said daily surveys conducted by its Delphi Research Group indicate racial disparities in both access to and trust in the vaccines.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The surveys are conducted daily as part of Facebook's Data for Good program, but the results for those who have been vaccinated is based on the response of 300,000 people from Jan. 9-15, the university said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 When asked whether they had received a vaccine, 9.3% of white people said yes, compared with 6.8% of Hispanics and 6.4% of Black people. American Indians/Alaska Natives (12.9%) and people of Asian descent (12.3%) had the highest rates of vaccination.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Trust in medicine and the vaccine also was an issue for Black respondents.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Just 58% of Black respondents said they trusted the vaccine, as opposed to 73% of Hispanics and 76% of whites. Asian Americans had the highest level of acceptance, at 88%, the university said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The responses also noted that, in some states, Black people were more than twice as likely than white people to worry about the vaccine's side effects.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The wide racial and ethnic disparities among those who received the vaccine are due to several factors, including affordable access to health care and distrust in medicine because of "decades of discrimination," the university said in a release.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "These disparities highlight long-standing gaps in Americans' access to and trust in medicine, and show that much work remains to be done to ensure everyone has access to health care they trust," said Alex Reinhart, an assistant teaching professor in CMU's Department of Statistics and 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  and one of the researchers who helped to analyze the data.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 According to CMU, the Delphi Research Group began daily surveys related to COVID-19 in April, with an initial focus on self-reported symptoms. The surveys were later expanded to include factors such as mask use and vaccine acceptance.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Delphi researchers use the data to forecast COVID-19 activity at state and county levels, information that then is reported to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The findings are updated daily and made available to the public on CMU's COVIDcast website, delphi.cmu.edu/covidcast/survey-results/.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette:
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0January 29, 2021
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 ALLEGHENY COUNTY REPORTS 135 DEATHS, BLAMES STATE BACKLOG FOR SHARP SPIKE
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 January 29, 2021 Friday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2021 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0LOCAL; Pg. B-6
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0611 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 A backlog of data at the state level meant Allegheny County saw a sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 deaths reported Thursday, the county Health Department said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In the most recent 24-hour period, the county reported 135 new deaths - significantly higher than the eight deaths reported Wednesday, which the county attributed to a backlog in the state's Electronic Death Reporting System.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The latest deaths occurred between Dec. 16 and Jan. 24. Among them were one person in his or her 40s, three in their 50s, 11 in their 60s, 29 in their 70s, 46 in their 80s, 40 in their 90s and five in their 100s.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 According to the county, 70 of the 135 deaths were associated with long-term care facilities.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 With the latest data, the county has reported 1,412 deaths since the pandemic began in March.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The county also reported 358 new cases, increasing its total to 68,445, and 4,199 hospitalizations as a result of the virus.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In Pennsylvania, 198 new deaths and 6,036 new cases were reported by the state Department of Health. With the increases, the state has recorded 824,405 cases and 21,303 deaths. More than half the deaths - 11,170 - are associated with nursing or personal care homes.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Health Department said 3,768 people were hospitalized throughout the state, with 759 being treated in intensive care units.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 So far, the state has administered 837,817 doses of COVID-19 vaccine to 678,618 people - 519,419 have received a first dose, and 159,199 of them have received a second dose.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Carnegie Mellon University on Thursday said daily surveys conducted by its Delphi Research Group indicate racial disparities in both access to and trust in the vaccines.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The surveys are conducted daily as part of Facebook's Data for Good program, but the results for those who have been vaccinated is based on the response of 300,000 people from Jan. 9-15, the university said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 When asked whether they had received a vaccine, 9.3% of white people said yes, compared with 6.8% of Hispanics and 6.4% of Black people. American Indians/Alaska Natives (12.9%) and people of Asian descent (12.3%) had the highest rates of vaccination.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Trust in medicine and the vaccine also was an issue for Black respondents.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Just 58% of Black respondents said they trusted the vaccine, as opposed to 73% of Hispanics and 76% of whites. Asian Americans had the highest level of acceptance, at 88%, the university said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The responses also noted that, in some states, Black people were more than twice as likely than white people to worry about the vaccine's side effects.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The wide racial and ethnic disparities among those who received the vaccine are due to several factors, including affordable access to health care and distrust in medicine because of "decades of discrimination," the university said in a release.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "These disparities highlight long-standing gaps in Americans' access to and trust in medicine, and show that much work remains to be done to ensure everyone has access to health care they trust," said Alex Reinhart, an assistant teaching professor in CMU's Department of Statistics and 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  and one of the researchers who helped to analyze the data.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 According to CMU, the Delphi Research Group began daily surveys related to COVID-19 in April, with an initial focus on self-reported symptoms. The surveys were later expanded to include factors such as mask use and vaccine acceptance.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Delphi researchers use the data to forecast COVID-19 activity at state and county levels, information that then is reported to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The findings are updated daily and made available to the public on CMU's COVIDcast website, delphi.cmu.edu/covidcast/survey-results/.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 CHART: Pennsylvania and Allegheny County Departments of Health and The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Post-Gazette: DAILY COVID-19 CASES, DEATHS, VACCINATIONS/Cases, Deaths, People Vaccinated In The Region\\ \\ CHART: Pennsylvania and Allegheny County Departments of Health and The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Post-Gazette: DAILY COVID-19 CASES, DEATHS, VACCINATIONS/Vaccination Progress In The State And Nation: Pennsylvania\\ \\ CHART: Pennsylvania and Allegheny County Departments of Health and The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Post-Gazette: DAILY COVID-19 CASES, DEATHS, VACCINATIONS/Vaccination Progress In The State And Nation: U.S.\\
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0February 1, 2021
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 STUDENTS CREATE COVID-19 DASHBOARD FOR WEBSITE; TEAM AIMED FOR USER-FRIENDLY DATA
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 January 15, 2021 Friday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2021 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0LOCAL; Pg. LX-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0702 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Deana Carpenter
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Like many schools, the Bethel Park School District has been keeping track of its COVID-19 cases through an online dashboard accessible to the public. But Bethel Park's is different in that it was created by a group of its high school students.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The eight students - Martina Tatalias, Tanush Bahl, Ethan Donovan, Johnatan Ivanov, Christian McClaine, Demetrios Patrinos, Toby Roule and Evan Zelt - used Google Data Studio, including Google Docs and Google Sheets, to create the district's online COVID-19 dashboard.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Led by Bethel Park High School teachers Lee Cristofano and Emily Smoller, the group had worked together previously on the Pittsburgh Data Jam project, a competition designed to teach students from local high schools how to work with and analyze large sets of data.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. McClaine, a senior, said the group became friends while working on the project, so when they were approached by the district about the need for a COVID-19 dashboard, they "took it head on."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Bethel Park's director of communications and public relations, Jim Cromie, was first to suggest that students create the dashboard as a learning exercise.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The dashboard tracks active and recovered cases of the virus by school building and differentiates teacher cases from student cases.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 It went live on Dec. 9 and is the most visited page on the district's website, with an average of 125 views per day and a total of 6,652 views by the first week of January.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Roule, a senior, said the students met remotely to work on the project. They each put about five hours of work into creating the dashboard, which is now maintained by Mr. Cromie, who puts in the new data each day.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We saw a lot of other schools' dashboards \'e2\'80\'a6 and they were not super user friendly and not very interactive. That kind of incentivized us to create one that was a lot more engaging," said Mr. Zelt, also a senior.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The team recognizes they are providing a service to the district and community.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Everyone was able to contribute on a high level, and I am grateful for that," said Ms. Tatalias, a sophomore who helped with the design of the dashboard.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Even though we are students, we are still part of the Bethel Park community. We're kind of that population that likes to know what's happening, and we like looking at data, so we are able to provide that insight," said Mr. Patrinos, a senior.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Bahl, a senior, said they wanted to make the dashboard accessible to the average citizen.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "From our minds, we are looking at it from the 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  point of view, but we wanted to make it so that anyone from the Bethel Park area could go to the site and see how we were doing," he said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We wanted to just kind of make our own thing and show the data that we knew we wanted to see - which would be what the community would want to see," said Mr. Ivanov, a senior. "We were all invested. We cared, and we enjoyed doing this project because it was something that applied to us and was something that we used and the community would use."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Patrinos noted that Bethel Park's dashboard is different because it distinguishes student data from staff data.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We have separate graphs - separate numbers everywhere," he said. "When you look at ours, it's really easy just to take at face value."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "The goal is always to make the data user-friendly," said Mr. McClaine. "Anyone can go and find a giant spreadsheet of data, but you have to have some visual skills and knowledge to make it viewable to the layperson, and we think we did a good job of doing that."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Cristofano said that in the data class he teaches with Ms. Smoller they emphasize storytelling with data.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I really think that this team has really accomplished that. They are telling the story of the impact of this on our schools, our staff, our students, our community - and they are really telling the story with the data," Mr. Cristofano said. "They learned Google Studio from the ground up. They programmed the spreadsheets with the formulas from the ground up. They did invent the wheel on this. I'm very, very proud of that."
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 The COVID-19 dashboard can be found on the Bethel Park School District website, 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 www.bpsd.org
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone , under the "district news" header.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Deana Carpenter, freelance writer: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 suburbanliving@post-gazette.com
\f3\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0January 16, 2021
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 STUDENTS CREATE COVID-19 DASHBOARD FOR WEBSITE; TEAM AIMED FOR USER-FRIENDLY DATA
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 January 15, 2021 Friday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2021 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0LOCAL; Pg. LX-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0702 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Deana Carpenter
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Like many schools, the Bethel Park School District has been keeping track of its COVID-19 cases through an online dashboard accessible to the public. But Bethel Park's is different in that it was created by a group of its high school students.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The eight students - Martina Tatalias, Tanush Bahl, Ethan Donovan, Johnatan Ivanov, Christian McClaine, Demetrios Patrinos, Toby Roule and Evan Zelt - used Google Data Studio, including Google Docs and Google Sheets, to create the district's online COVID-19 dashboard.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Led by Bethel Park High School teachers Lee Cristofano and Emily Smoller, the group had worked together previously on the Pittsburgh Data Jam project, a competition designed to teach students from local high schools how to work with and analyze large sets of data.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. McClaine, a senior, said the group became friends while working on the project, so when they were approached by the district about the need for a COVID-19 dashboard, they "took it head on."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Bethel Park's director of communications and public relations, Jim Cromie, was first to suggest that students create the dashboard as a learning exercise.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The dashboard tracks active and recovered cases of the virus by school building and differentiates teacher cases from student cases.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 It went live on Dec. 9 and is the most visited page on the district's website, with an average of 125 views per day and a total of 6,652 views by the first week of January.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Roule, a senior, said the students met remotely to work on the project. They each put about five hours of work into creating the dashboard, which is now maintained by Mr. Cromie, who puts in the new data each day.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We saw a lot of other schools' dashboards \'e2\'80\'a6 and they were not super user friendly and not very interactive. That kind of incentivized us to create one that was a lot more engaging," said Mr. Zelt, also a senior.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The team recognizes they are providing a service to the district and community.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Everyone was able to contribute on a high level, and I am grateful for that," said Ms. Tatalias, a sophomore who helped with the design of the dashboard.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Even though we are students, we are still part of the Bethel Park community. We're kind of that population that likes to know what's happening, and we like looking at data, so we are able to provide that insight," said Mr. Patrinos, a senior.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Bahl, a senior, said they wanted to make the dashboard accessible to the average citizen.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "From our minds, we are looking at it from the 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  point of view, but we wanted to make it so that anyone from the Bethel Park area could go to the site and see how we were doing," he said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We wanted to just kind of make our own thing and show the data that we knew we wanted to see - which would be what the community would want to see," said Mr. Ivanov, a senior. "We were all invested. We cared, and we enjoyed doing this project because it was something that applied to us and was something that we used and the community would use."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Patrinos noted that Bethel Park's dashboard is different because it distinguishes student data from staff data.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We have separate graphs - separate numbers everywhere," he said. "When you look at ours, it's really easy just to take at face value."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "The goal is always to make the data user-friendly," said Mr. McClaine. "Anyone can go and find a giant spreadsheet of data, but you have to have some visual skills and knowledge to make it viewable to the layperson, and we think we did a good job of doing that."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Cristofano said that in the data class he teaches with Ms. Smoller they emphasize storytelling with data.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I really think that this team has really accomplished that. They are telling the story of the impact of this on our schools, our staff, our students, our community - and they are really telling the story with the data," Mr. Cristofano said. "They learned Google Studio from the ground up. They programmed the spreadsheets with the formulas from the ground up. They did invent the wheel on this. I'm very, very proud of that."
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 The COVID-19 dashboard can be found on the Bethel Park School District website, 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 www.bpsd.org
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone , under the "district news" header.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Deana Carpenter, freelance writer: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 suburbanliving@post-gazette.com
\f3\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0January 15, 2021
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 VOICE OF ANALYTICS GURU GROWING STRONGER; WITH RECENT PROMOTION, VENTURA IS PREPARING 'FIRE HOSE' OF NEW DATA
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 December 2, 2020 Wednesday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2020 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0SPORTS; ON THE PENGUINS; Pg. D-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a01390 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Mike DeFabo
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 As Sam Ventura packed his bags and headed to New York City in the summer of 2009, he thought he had it all planned out.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Woodland Hills graduate was breezing through a computational finance degree at Carnegie Mellon University and had landed a prestigious internship on Wall Street. The opportunity was intended to open a door and offer a glimpse into Ventura's lucrative future in finance.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Well, that summer was formative ... just not how Ventura imagined. Turns out, he hated it.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 So now what? Ventura thought back to his childhood in Swissvale, where he'd round up neighborhood kids for a game of street hockey on the tennis court or scour through box scores in the morning paper. He began to shift his focus with the help of Andrew Thomas, a CMU professor and accomplished researcher in the sports analytics field.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Now, 10 years and three CMU degrees later, Ventura, 32, has found his calling. Instead of Wall Street, Ventura makes his living at 1001 Fifth Ave. as an analyst for the Penguins.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Since joining the club as a consultant in 2015 and later a full-time employee, Ventura's voice within the organization has grown and evolved. This upcoming season, the Penguins might get to tap into Ventura's expertise more than ever.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Ventura added to his job description this offseason when Jim Rutherford named him director of hockey operations and research. The promotion coincides with the NHL preparing to introduce puck and player tracking, a new frontier that will give data scientists and analytics experts more information than ever.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 To understand why the Penguins added to Ventura's list of responsibilities and what the tracking data means, it's important first to understand how we got here.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PAPER, PROFESSOR, CALL
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The timing was nearly perfect for Ventura. Just as he began diving into the world of sports analytics, hockey was in the midst of a data revolution.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 As recently as the 1990s, players couldn't even get their hands on some of the most basic stats like hits, blocked shots or time on ice to make their cases at arbitration. But when the NHL began to release real-time scoring stats publicly in the mid-2000s, a grassroots group of bloggers and analysts emerged. They used that data to create new stats and analysis, including popular shot-based metrics like Corsi.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 At the same time, Thomas had his students at CMU read a number of sports analytics papers and then discuss what they would do differently. When Ventura read about how Brian Macdonald extended basketball's adjusted plus-minus framework into hockey, he proposed an idea of how to tweak it.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 What was supposed to be nothing more than a classroom exercise soon became a spark that would ignite Ventura's sports analytics career. That discussion evolved into an academic paper by Thomas and Ventura titled "Competing Process Hazard Function Models for Player Ratings in Ice Hockey."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The sports analytics community took notice. As Ventura completed a master's degree and later a PhD, he and Thomas began presenting their work at conferences.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Then came a pivotal moment in 2014. The leading source for publicly available hockey data, ExtraSkater.com, was folding. The reason was somewhat bittersweet.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Toronto Maple Leafs and then-28-year-old general manager Kyle Dubas had hired Extra Skater's creator, Darryl Metcalf. It was one of the first times the NHL offered a seat at the table to a member of the hockey analytics community.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 While it was a huge win for people who had spent years pouring over spreadsheets and charts, Extra Skater's disappearance created a void. Ventura and Thomas seized the opportunity. Within a weekend, they were hammering out code and creating the framework for what would eventually become War-on-Ice.com, a website that arguably became the most significant hockey analytics site of its time.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We had done all this work, but nobody really noticed it because it was all in academic journals," Ventura said. "We created the website, sort of as a way to get the word out there a little bit better."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 As War-on-Ice.com grew, so too did the NHL's interest in analytics. Metcalf's hiring soon opened the pipeline for many more highly educated outsiders. The Capitals hired Tim Barnes, the man often credited for naming Corsi. The Oilers hired blogger Tyler Dellow. The Devils hired Sunny Mehta, a former pro poker player. Today, virtually all 32 teams employ some type of data scientist or analytics guru.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Penguins didn't take long to join the analytics revolution. In 2015, former assistant general manager Jason Karmanos called Ventura and offered him an opportunity to join his hometown team as a consultant. Meanwhile, Thomas joined the Minnesota Wild as the lead researcher. Quickly, Ventura earned a full-time position and began climbing the ranks within the front office.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "It wasn't something that was really in the forefront of my mind as something I wanted to do in the short run," Ventura said. "The biggest surprise is how quickly things progressed from War on Ice to where I am now. It's been an exciting six years now."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 A NEW FRONTIER
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Considering how significant Thomas was in Ventura's development, maybe it's fitting that the next step comes with an assist from his former CMU professor.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In March, Thomas was named director of 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  at SportsMEDIA Technology, the company that the NHL has contracted to build its player and puck tracking.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Thomas is tasked with leading the analysis and interpretation of this new tracking data.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 To the general fan, the data will likely be presented during game broadcasts in oversimplified snapshots. How fast was that shot? How long did a team get pinned in their defensive zone? How quickly did that skater speed down the ice on that breakaway?
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Those things are kind of cool and easily digestible, sure, but not incredibly illuminating for analysts. And the NHL isn't expected to release all the data to the public, so popular analytics websites and accounts don't expect it to significantly reshape their stats and metrics.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 However, behind the curtain, each NHL team will get what SMT is calling a "firehose of data." Players will produce 200 data points a second and the puck will register 2,000 data points a second. More than the sheer quantity of data, it's the type of information that's exciting for Ventura.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "The data that's currently available publicly really focuses on specific events that happen on the ice," Ventura said. "A shot. A hit. A faceoff. Things like that.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "This data is fundamentally different. Instead of just looking at specific events, it's giving you the locations and the trajectories of all players on the ice and the puck, at every moment in time. It lets you look at things that you would never even be able to begin to explore with data otherwise, things like positioning of defensemen and goalies, how much space is being created by particular players."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 By accessing player locations, NHL analysts who can get their hands on this information will be able to refine and create some new metrics.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 For example, by registering where each player is on the ice for a shot or pass, advanced stats like "expected goals" might be improved. Passing stats, which are not currently tracked by the NHL, will be calculated in new and different ways.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 By measuring distance between players, the concept of gap control could be analyzed like never before. The impact of a net-front screen can be quantified, and blocked shots can be studied to add some science to some of the most fundamental elements of the game.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "People are good at saying, this player is this good," Ventura said. "But they're not quite so good at saying why.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Why are players having success; why are players struggling? Why are teams having success; why are teams struggling? I think that's the area where the biggest changes are going to come in the short-term future."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 At least initially, storing and trying to figure out what all this data means will be a challenge in and of itself.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 But with virtually all 32 teams employing some type of data scientist or analyst, the race is officially on to try to organize and interpret this new information with the hopes of finding even the smallest competitive advantage.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "It's an exciting time," Ventura said. "When you look at what's happened in other sports, there's been an explosion of information available to fans and to teams. Hopefully, that happens in hockey, as well."
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Mike DeFabo: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 mdefabo@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  and Twitter @MikeDeFabo.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Pittsburgh Penguins: Sam Ventura and his wife, Emily, during the Penguins' 2017 ring ceremony.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0December 3, 2020
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 SURVEY: ALLEGHENY COUNTY RESIDENTS SAY THEY MASK UP
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 October 13, 2020 Tuesday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2020 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; Pg. B-5
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0576 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Lauren Rosenblatt, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 With new data from Carnegie Mellon University, there's now a way to see how many of your neighbors say they mask up.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CMU's Delphi Research Group has expanded its COVIDcast project, the university's platform to collect, analyze and provide localized information about the novel coronavirus. Since April, researchers have been gathering data about COVID-19 through hospital and medical records and surveys.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The data - which can be broken down by state, metro area or county - look at things like how many people search for COVID-19 on Google, how many COVID-related doctors' visits are scheduled and how often people leave their home and for how long.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The project is meant to help forecast the spread of COVID-19, or predict when and where case numbers could spike. COVIDcast began forecasting the spread of the virus in June and sharing those predictions with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in July.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Now, it has expanded its survey to include questions about access to testing and how people are responding to public health recommendations, like wearing a mask in public.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Based on the self-reported data, most respondents in Allegheny County and surrounding areas have been opting to mask up.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In the first days of October, the data showed about 93% of respondents in Allegheny said they wear a mask most or all of the time while in public.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In Washington, Westmoreland, Erie and Beaver counties, between 84% and 87% of respondents said they wore a mask.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Several surrounding counties, like Greene, Forest, Venango and Somerset, did not have any data available.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The CDC recommends individuals wear a mask when in public or when around others who do not live in their household to prevent the spread of the virus. In Pennsylvania, state officials mandated masks for employees and customers in businesses in April and then for anyone leaving their home in July.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 At CMU, the researchers added the question as another way to help predict the spread of COVID-19 and determine what measures are successful in preventing a rise in infections.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The data is not meant to replace official public health reporting on COVID-19, but researchers hope it will supplement decisions made about new health and safety guidelines.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "By providing these signals to the public, we hope to give researchers, public health officials and journalists the information they need to form a more complete picture of the pandemic," Alex Reinhart, an assistant teaching professor in CMU's Department of Statistics and 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  and a member of the Delphi group, said in a prepared statement.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In Pennsylvania, 87% of respondents said they wore a mask most or all of the time. Comparatively, in Wyoming, only 61% of respondents said they wore a mask, the lowest percentage of any state based on the available data Monday.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 More than 1 million U.S. residents have responded to the expanded survey since it rolled out last month, according to a press release.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CMU has partnered with Google, Facebook and the University of Maryland on COVIDcast. Facebook distributes the survey to users each day but does not see the results, researchers say. CMU also does not see the identity of the survey respondent.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Google donated $1 million and 12 pro bono fellows to the initiative in September.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CMU's Delphi group is used to this type of work. It has been forecasting influenza for the past several years and was recently named one of two National Centers for Excellence for Influenza Forecasting by the CDC.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Lauren Rosenblatt: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 lrosenblatt@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone , 412-263-1565.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Screenshot from Facebook: A screenshot from Facebook of the survey that appears on users' NewsFeed, part of an effort with Carnegie Mellon University researchers to track the spread of COVID-19.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0October 13, 2020
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 CMU, SPORTS ANALYTICS GOOD FIT; SCHOOL PLAYS HOST TO KEY CONFERENCE OVER WEEKEND
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 October 27, 2017 Friday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0SPORTS; Pg. D-10
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0870 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0By\'a0Elizabeth Bloom, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Rob Engel calls it the bar test.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 No, he's not talking about the exam hopeful lawyers have to take in order to practice law. Engel's test is more a gut check about whether advanced baseball statistics on a TV screen would make sense to fans watching a ballgame at a noisy bar.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Would the stat make sense to the average fan? What if the sound on the TV is off? Is a newer stat like catch probability self-explanatory?
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Kind of like telling a joke," said Engel, director of baseball engineering at MLB Advanced Media. "You don't want to explain the punchline of a joke. Otherwise, it's probably not a good joke."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Engel, 29, helped build out the back-end software of MLBAM's most popular tools, such as Statcast and Gameday, and leads a team tasked with capturing and distributing data to MLB's 30 teams. As one of the league's top software developers, Engel, a graduate of Carnegie Mellon University's software engineering master's program, was named MLBAM's 2014 employee of the year for his initial buildout of Statcast. He'll discuss his work at the first CMU Sports Analytics Conference Saturday and Sunday on the university's campus.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The conference, which is open to the public and jointly organized by CMU's Statistics & 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  department and the Carnegie Mellon Sports Analytics Club, highlights the university's contributions to the field of sports analytics. (CMU held a conference focused on hockey analytics in 2014.)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In addition to Engel, various sports analytics experts connected to CMU and Pittsburgh will appear at the conference, including:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Analytics experts for the Pirates (Bob Cook), Steelers (Karim Kassam) and Penguins (Sam Ventura);Buddy Clark, co-founder of bat-tracking company Diamond Kinetics and professor at Pitt;Priya Narasimhan, CEO and founder of YinzCam and professor at CMU;CMU alumnus Sandy Weil, director of sports analytics at Kroenke Sports & Entertainment;Peter Carr, a research scientist at Disney Research;Pitt faculty member Konstantinos Pelechrinis;CMU statistics graduate student Ron Yurko, one of the conference organizers; andCMU alumnus Maksim Horowitz, who works for the NBA
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Brian Burke, an analytics specialist at ESPN, will give the keynote address. The conference also features presentations from academics and industry experts, a poster session, a demonstration of Yurko and Horowitz's football software and a mixer. The Tartan 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Cup, a 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  competition for CMU undergraduates and high school students, will follow Sunday.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 While sports analytics conferences are sprouting up across the country, organizers say this gathering provides an opportunity to highlight and bring together the work of CMU students, alumni and faculty.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "From my perspective, I generally wanted to show off all of the great stuff that everybody affiliated with Carnegie Mellon and Carnegie Mellon sports analytics are doing," said Rebecca Nugent, associate department head and director of undergraduate studies in CMU's statistics department. "It's clear that Carnegie Mellon is building quite the name for itself, but it's been spread out."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Yurko said the focus on technology also distinguishes it from other conferences. Engel is an example of that intersection: A native of the San Jose, Calif., area, he played catcher and pitcher at Macalester College in Minnesota, where he majored in computer science, and got his master's in software engineering at CMU's Silicon Valley campus in 2011.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 When he started looking into careers in software engineering, Engel didn't think he would be able to merge computer science and baseball, assuming baseball jobs were limited to the field or the front office. The spring before Engel graduated from CMU, his father suggested he take a look at the careers section of MLB's website. Lo and behold, Engel stumbled on an engineering job at MLBAM in New York, a job he described as "the perfect marriage" of his interests.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Now based in San Francisco, Engel leads a 12-person group tasked with engineering MLB's back-end software and capturing and distributing baseball data to fans, websites, vendors and teams. Anytime you see advanced baseball metrics on your computer, phone or TV - whether 3D graphics that show a pitch's path or data on exit velocity and launch angle - you can thank MLBAM, the league's media arm. One graphic (shown above) uses yellow bands to illustrate the probability that a baserunner on third will score on a sacrifice fly, based on the outfielder's arm, the baserunner's speed and so on.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Baseball has pioneered the way on analytics, so it's inevitable this type of technology will continue its reach into homes, bars, stadiums and front offices. For example, Engel's team is working on augmented reality software that would allow fans at stadiums to click on their iPads and see a baserunner's chance of stealing second base given the pitcher/catcher combination.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "The idea is we can make it a personalized broadcast in the stadium," Engel said.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 The CMU Sports Analytics Conference starts at 8 a.m. Saturday at Baker Hall, 4909 Frew Street, Oakland. Registration is free for high school students, $15 for undergrad/graduate students and $75 for the general public. Complete details are at 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 www.cmusportsanalytics.com/conference
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone .
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Elizabeth Bloom: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 ebloom@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone , 412-263-1750 and Twitter: @BloomPG. /
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Courtesy MLB Advanced Media: This image shows a Statcast graphic for the Sept. 28 Pirates game against the Nationals at Nationals Park. The graphic shows the chances of the batter hitting a successful sacrifice fly. Based on the each outfielder's arm strength and the speed of the runner on third base, Statcast can show how far the ball needs to be hit to score the runner. A ball hit beyond the green line is far enough to score the runner; a ball hit before the red line is too close to send the runner; a ball hit in the yellow section has a 50/50 chance of scoring the runner on a good throw.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0October 28, 2017
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 CMU STUDENT SUES OVER CAMPUS SHUTDOWN, DEMANDS TUITION REFUND
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 May 18, 2020 Monday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 WEB ONLY EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2020 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0EDUCATION; Pg. WEB
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0427 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0TORSTEN OVE, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 A Carnegie Mellon University student has sued the school in federal court and is seeking a refund for tuition and fees for the spring semester, saying CMU's online instruction isn't an adequate substitute for the real thing.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The suit, brought by undergraduate student Abigale Pfingsten, is seeking class-action status on behalf of all students like her affected by the shutdown of the campus in response to the coronavirus pandemic.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The breach-of-contract suit is similar to one filed earlier this month in federal court by two students against the University of Pittsburgh and mirrors others brought against universities around the country.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "The online learning options being offered to CMU students are subpar in practically every aspect and a shadow of what they once were, from the lack of facilities, materials, and access to faculty," the suit says. "Students have been deprived of the opportunity for collaborative learning and in-person dialogue, feedback, and critique."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Ms. Pfingsten is studying statistics and 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  as well as international relations, all of which rely on in-person instruction, peer collaboration and access to CMU facilities. She said she's also taking an acting class which similarly relies on in-person contact.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The suit says she and other students who have paid tuition and fees for the spring semester lost the benefit of the education for which they paid and want their money back.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CMU hasn't held any in-person classes since March 6 but hasn't refunded any payments.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The suit is asking for a return of the pro-rated portion of the tuition and fees for the time that remained in the spring semester when classes moved online.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The school on Tuesday released the following statement:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "While Carnegie Mellon does not comment on specifics of pending litigation, this unprecedented spring semester was defined by the dedication and flexibility of the entire CMU community," it reads. "Our faculty and staff seamlessly transitioned more than 2,400 classes to remote instruction in just a few days, allowing the university to fulfill our educational mission by delivering excellent instruction remotely to allow students to complete the academic year after the governor's order suspended in-person instruction. These efforts, combined with the determination of our students, were highlighted this past weekend when the university proudly celebrated the success of our graduates and the conferral of 5,436 degrees."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CMU also said that the university did provide pro-rated housing and dining fees back to students who did not return to campus.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 This story was updated at 1:20 p.m. May 18. / First Published May 18, 2020, 5:45pm / 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 tove@post-gazette.com
\f3\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Andrew Rush/Post-Gazette: A barren Carnegie Mellon University campus on April 15.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0May 20, 2020
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 STUDY LINKS AIR POLLUTION, COVID-19 DEATHS
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 April 19, 2020 Sunday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 TWO STAR EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2020 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0ASECTION; Pg. A-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0959 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Don Hopey Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Long-term exposure to higher concentrations of airborne particle pollution significantly increases the death rate for those infected with the novel coronavirus known as COVID-19, according to a Harvard University study.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The study, the first to assess the relationship between exposure to fine particles, known as PM2.5, and COVID-19 mortality, also is critical of the Trump administration's plans to relax enforcement of pollution standards during the ongoing pandemic.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Researchers at Harvard University's T.H. Chan School of Public Health reviewed COVID-19 mortality data from 3,000 U.S. counties through April 3 and found that exposure to increased concentrations of fine airborne particles is associated with a 15% increase in coronavirus mortality.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Even absent the pandemic, there's an overwhelming amount of scientific evidence showing fine particulate matter damages human health," said Francesca Dominici, senior study author and co-director of the Harvard 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Initiative. "And this study tells us that counties with more air pollution will have more hospitalizations and higher mortality risks in the new world of COVID."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Harvard study does not rank or highlight individual counties by pollution levels or high COVID-19 mortality.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Allegheny County, given its steel, coke and manufacturing legacy, has struggled over the last 50 years to meet federal air quality standards. And in 2015 the county was designated a federal "non-attainment area" for failing to meet the 2012 PM2.5 standard of 12 micrograms per cubic meter of air.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We know Pittsburgh and Allegheny County have historically high levels of PM," Ms. Dominici said, "and our study is saying that people breathing polluted air for a long time are more susceptible to contracting COVID-19 and dying from it."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 She said the impact of the county's poor air quality could be mitigated to some extent by the region's strong health care industry, and the study lists the number of hospital beds as a positive factor in reducing coronavirus mortality.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "It's important to have the medical resources," Ms. Dominici said. "The beds and the ability to treat COVID promptly when people get to the hospital helps."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Another data review, this one by QuoteWizard, an insurance news website, found similar associations between health and environmental factors and the COVID-19 outbreak. It calculated that more than 70% of coronavirus cases and about 80% of all deaths have occurred in the top 20 polluting states. California, Florida and Louisiana, among the biggest polluting states, also are among those with the highest number of COVID-19 cases.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Pennsylvania was ranked as the 13th most-polluted state. According to the QuoteWizard review, which was using numbers from April 8, Pennsylvania had almost 15,000 COVID-19 cases, seventh most in the nation, and 250 fatalities, ninth in the nation.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Early in the crisis, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced that people most at risk are those with underlying health conditions, including asthma, chronic lung disease and cardiovascular disease, which can be related to air pollution. It is therefore likely that high-pollution areas around the country are putting people at greater risk of COVID-19, according to the QuoteWizard site.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 According to the Harvard study, which has been submitted to the peer-reviewed New England Journal of Medicine, its findings underscore the importance of continuing to enforce federal air pollution standards to protect public health during and after the pandemic.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Trump administration in March said the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency would relax enforcement of air quality standards during the pandemic. That won't have an impact locally because the Allegheny County Health Department, which is the lead air quality agency in the county, announced it will continue regular enforcement.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The EPA also has noted that because of the economic shutdown, vehicle and manufacturing emissions are much reduced.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "It's true that with the economy stopping, no travel and no driving to work, there is a temporary, short-term reduction in air pollution, but we are expecting that as soon as the economy is restarted, pollution will go up again and people will get even sicker when they contract COVID," Ms. Dominici said. "The EPA rollback of rules will give industry license to pollute even more."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In addition to that temporary enforcement pause, the Trump administration announced Tuesday that, following a lengthy review, it will not tighten the PM2.5 pollution standard established in 2012, a non-action that industries supported and environmental and public health organizations criticized for failing to adequately protect public health. The county health department has developed a plan to achieve the standard by the end of 2021.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Alison Steele, executive director of the Southwest Pennsylvania Environmental Health Project, said the organization tracks particle pollution throughout the region and is aware that such exposure increases the health risks for those with chronic diseases and coronavirus.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "The [COVID-19] disease is following the same patterns of other infectious lung diseases," Ms. Steele said. "And for those exposed, there's more risk of developing serious symptoms."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Ms. Dominici said there are many scientific studies, including a 2018 study she participated in, that show the 2012 standard should be tightened to protect human health.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The fine airborne particles, less than 2.5 micrometers across or one-40th the size of a human hair, are emitted in vehicle exhausts, industrial and power plant emissions and fires, and are so dangerous because they can be inhaled deep into lungs and contain hundreds of chemicals.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Don Hopey: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dhopey@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  or 412-263-1983. Twitter: @donhopey
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Steph Chambers/Post-Gazette: Longtime Springdale resident and teacher Courtney Yaksich mows a neighbor's lawn on Thursday as the Cheswick Generating Station towers behind her on Rosslyn Avenue in Springdale.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Steph Chambers/Post-Gazette: A view of the Cheswick Generating Station, a coal fired power plant, seen Thursday, April 16, 2020, from Barking Slopes Conservation Area in Plum. It is likely that high-pollution areas around the country are putting people at greater risk of COVID-19 because of the related health conditions, according to the QuoteWizard site.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Steph Chambers/Post-Gazette: A sign referring to the Cheswick Generating Station, a coal fired power plant, is seen Thursday, April 16, 2020, on Porter Street in Springdale. Allegheny County, given its steel, coke and manufacturing legacy, has struggled over the last 50 years to meet federal air quality standards.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Steph Chambers/Post-Gazette: Longtime Springdale resident Jeff Yaksich dumps grass clippings into his truck after mowing a neighbor's lawn as the Cheswick Generating Station, a coal fired power plant, towers behind him Thursday, April 16, 2020, on Rosslyn Avenue in Springdale. "The only thing on people's mind right now is the coronavirus. But if it [the Cheswick Generating Station] gets people back to work, I'm for it. It's always been here," Yaksich said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Steph Chambers/Post-Gazette: The Cheswick Generating Station, a coal-fired power plant, is seen Thursday from Pittsburgh Street on the border of Springdale and Cheswick.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0April 19, 2020
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 HAZELWOOD GREEN LANDS INNOVATION HUB; CALIF.-BASED GSVLABS SIGNS LONG-TERM LEASE
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 February 26, 2020 Wednesday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2020 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0ASECTION; Pg. A-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0683 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Mark Belko Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 An old locomotive roundhouse in Hazelwood soon will become a hub of a different sort - for startups, corporations and others.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Global Silicon Valley Labs, better known as GSVlabs, announced Tuesday that it has signed a long-term lease to locate in the Hazelwood Green redevelopment on the Monongahela riverfront.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 GSVlabs, based in San Mateo, Calif., will make Pittsburgh its next innovation hub - taking space in the historic roundhouse building being redeveloped into collaborative work and event space. The company plans to open the hub in the second quarter of 2021.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Landing the deal is a big win for Almono LLC, the partnership that owns the sprawling 178-acre former LTV Coke Works site.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We are extremely excited to bring GSVlabs to Pittsburgh, as we continue to expand our footprint not just with our global online platform, but in supporting emerging innovation markets around the world with our Innovation Centers," said Nikhil Sinha, CEO of GSVlabs, in the official announcement.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We see huge potential in Pittsburgh's rapidly growing market of entrepreneurial and startup activity, with its expanding network of unprecedented university talent and engineering, AI, and 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  expertise."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The innovation hub will be GSVlabs' third. It has centers in the Silicon Valley and Boston. It took a chance on Hazelwood Green because it saw Pittsburgh as a hot spot for startup and innovation space.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 At the roundhouse, the tenant will take all 26,000 square feet available. It plans to offer entrepreneurial-focused coworking spaces for startups and founders, indoor-outdoor collaborative working and events space, and flexible workshop and training rooms.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The roundhouse is being redeveloped by Almono - the partnership made up of the Heinz Endowments, the Richard King Mellon Foundation, and the Claude Worthington Benedum Foundation - that has been marketing the space as a technology acceleration and coworking space.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 GSVlabs will join Carnegie Mellon University's Advanced Robotics for Manufacturing Institute and its Manufacturing Futures Initiative, Catalyst Connection and autonomous vehicle startup Aptiv at Hazelwood Green.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CMU and Catalyst have moved into the first building erected by the Regional Industrial Development Corp. as part of its Mill 19 redevelopment. Aptiv is set to move into a second building in that complex this spring.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Sam Reiman, director of the Richard King Mellon Foundation and Almono member, said landing GSVlabs took more than two years.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "With Carnegie Mellon University, Aptiv and now GSVlabs at Hazelwood Green, there is growing momentum for us to build Pittsburgh's - and the country's - new economy right in our own backyard - through the sustainable reuse of a historic site where the old economy was forged," Mr. Reiman said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Securing the tenant also is a momentum builder for Hazelwood Green, which has struggled to gain traction beyond the Mill 19 development.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 GSVlabs bills itself as a worldwide innovation platform with over 20,000 members, 450 investors and more than 100 enterprise partners in its network. It states that its mission "is to create the world's premier global innovation platform - empowering entrepreneurs and democratizing innovation around the world."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "As the first national startup accelerator to set up a permanent location in Pittsburgh, GSVlabs is demonstrating confidence in the vision established for Hazelwood Green as a place where innovation is fostered, anchored by the p4 principles of people, planet, place, and performance," Mayor Bill Peduto said in a statement.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Hazelwood Green roundhouse dates to 1887. It was used in part to service train engines.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In its redevelopment, Almono plans to incorporate original elements from the 10-bay structure, including the turntable and operator cab, crane, fume hood room, and rail tracks.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Almono already has replaced parts of the roof, removed an enclosure that was collapsing, and hauled away abandoned vehicles.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The roundhouse was built by the Monongahela Connecting Railroad and later owned by Jones&Laughlin Steel and the LTV Steel Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Mark Belko: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 mbelko@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  or 412-263-1262.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Global Silicon Valley Labs: The redeveloped historic roundhouse at Hazelwood Green will become home to a Global Silicon Valley Labs innovation hub, its third in the country.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Global Silicon Valley Labs: Part of the Roundhouse redevelopment at Hazelwood Green.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Andrew Rush/Post-Gazette: Construction work on the Mill 19 building at the Hazelwood Green development site can be seen in this photo taken on Thursday, Oct. 4, 2018.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: The 178-acre Hazelwood Green development landed a long-term lease with Global Silicon Valley Labs, which will turn the old locomotive roundhouse, foreground, into its next innovation hub.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0February 27, 2020
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 HAZELWOOD GREEN LANDS INNOVATION HUB; CALIF.-BASED GSVLABS SIGNS LONG-TERM LEASE
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 February 26, 2020 Wednesday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2020 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0ASECTION; Pg. A-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0683 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Mark Belko Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 An old locomotive roundhouse in Hazelwood soon will become a hub of a different sort - for startups, corporations and others.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Global Silicon Valley Labs, better known as GSVlabs, announced Tuesday that it has signed a long-term lease to locate in the Hazelwood Green redevelopment on the Monongahela riverfront.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 GSVlabs, based in San Mateo, Calif., will make Pittsburgh its next innovation hub - taking space in the historic roundhouse building being redeveloped into collaborative work and event space. The company plans to open the hub in the second quarter of 2021.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Landing the deal is a big win for Almono LLC, the partnership that owns the sprawling 178-acre former LTV Coke Works site.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We are extremely excited to bring GSVlabs to Pittsburgh, as we continue to expand our footprint not just with our global online platform, but in supporting emerging innovation markets around the world with our Innovation Centers," said Nikhil Sinha, CEO of GSVlabs, in the official announcement.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We see huge potential in Pittsburgh's rapidly growing market of entrepreneurial and startup activity, with its expanding network of unprecedented university talent and engineering, AI, and 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  expertise."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The innovation hub will be GSVlabs' third. It has centers in the Silicon Valley and Boston. It took a chance on Hazelwood Green because it saw Pittsburgh as a hot spot for startup and innovation space.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 At the roundhouse, the tenant will take all 26,000 square feet available. It plans to offer entrepreneurial-focused coworking spaces for startups and founders, indoor-outdoor collaborative working and events space, and flexible workshop and training rooms.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The roundhouse is being redeveloped by Almono - the partnership made up of the Heinz Endowments, the Richard King Mellon Foundation, and the Claude Worthington Benedum Foundation - that has been marketing the space as a technology acceleration and coworking space.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 GSVlabs will join Carnegie Mellon University's Advanced Robotics for Manufacturing Institute and its Manufacturing Futures Initiative, Catalyst Connection and autonomous vehicle startup Aptiv at Hazelwood Green.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CMU and Catalyst have moved into the first building erected by the Regional Industrial Development Corp. as part of its Mill 19 redevelopment. Aptiv is set to move into a second building in that complex this spring.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Sam Reiman, director of the Richard King Mellon Foundation and Almono member, said landing GSVlabs took more than two years.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "With Carnegie Mellon University, Aptiv and now GSVlabs at Hazelwood Green, there is growing momentum for us to build Pittsburgh's - and the country's - new economy right in our own backyard - through the sustainable reuse of a historic site where the old economy was forged," Mr. Reiman said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Securing the tenant also is a momentum builder for Hazelwood Green, which has struggled to gain traction beyond the Mill 19 development.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 GSVlabs bills itself as a worldwide innovation platform with over 20,000 members, 450 investors and more than 100 enterprise partners in its network. It states that its mission "is to create the world's premier global innovation platform - empowering entrepreneurs and democratizing innovation around the world."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "As the first national startup accelerator to set up a permanent location in Pittsburgh, GSVlabs is demonstrating confidence in the vision established for Hazelwood Green as a place where innovation is fostered, anchored by the p4 principles of people, planet, place, and performance," Mayor Bill Peduto said in a statement.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Hazelwood Green roundhouse dates to 1887. It was used in part to service train engines.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In its redevelopment, Almono plans to incorporate original elements from the 10-bay structure, including the turntable and operator cab, crane, fume hood room, and rail tracks.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Almono already has replaced parts of the roof, removed an enclosure that was collapsing, and hauled away abandoned vehicles.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The roundhouse was built by the Monongahela Connecting Railroad and later owned by Jones&Laughlin Steel and the LTV Steel Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Mark Belko: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 mbelko@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  or 412-263-1262.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Global Silicon Valley Labs: The redeveloped historic roundhouse at Hazelwood Green will become home to a Global Silicon Valley Labs innovation hub, its third in the country.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Global Silicon Valley Labs: Part of the Roundhouse redevelopment at Hazelwood Green.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Andrew Rush/Post-Gazette: Construction work on the Mill 19 building at the Hazelwood Green development site can be seen in this photo taken on Thursday, Oct. 4, 2018.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: The 178-acre Hazelwood Green development landed a long-term lease with Global Silicon Valley Labs, which will turn the old locomotive roundhouse, foreground, into its next innovation hub.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0February 29, 2020
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 HAZELWOOD GREEN LANDS INNOVATION HUB; CALIF.-BASED GSVLABS SIGNS LONG-TERM LEASE
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 February 26, 2020 Wednesday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2020 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; Pg. A-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0675 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Mark Belko, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 An old locomotive roundhouse in Hazelwood soon will become a hub of a different sort - for startups, corporations and others.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Global Silicon Valley Labs, better known as GSVlabs, announced Tuesday that it has signed a long-term lease to locate in the Hazelwood Green redevelopment on the Monongahela riverfront.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 GSVlabs, based in San Mateo, Calif., will make Pittsburgh its next innovation hub - taking space in the historic roundhouse building being redeveloped into collaborative work and event space. The company plans to open the hub in the second quarter of 2021.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Landing the deal is a big win for Almono LLC, the partnership that owns the sprawling 178-acre former LTV Coke Works site.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We are extremely excited to bring GSVlabs to Pittsburgh, as we continue to expand our footprint not just with our global online platform, but in supporting emerging innovation markets around the world with our Innovation Centers," said Nikhil Sinha, CEO of GSVlabs, in the official announcement.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We see huge potential in Pittsburgh's rapidly growing market of entrepreneurial and startup activity, with its expanding network of unprecedented university talent and engineering, AI, and 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  expertise."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The innovation hub will be GSVlabs' third. It has centers in the Silicon Valley and Boston. It took a chance on Hazelwood Green because it saw Pittsburgh as a hot spot for startup and innovation space.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 At the roundhouse, the tenant will take all 26,000 square feet available. It plans to offer entrepreneurial-focused coworking spaces for startups and founders, indoor-outdoor collaborative working and events space, and flexible workshop and training rooms.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The roundhouse is being redeveloped by Almono - the partnership made up of the Heinz Endowments, the Richard King Mellon Foundation, and the Claude Worthington Benedum Foundation - that has been marketing the space as a technology acceleration and coworking space.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 GSVlabs will join Carnegie Mellon University's Advanced Robotics for Manufacturing Institute and its Manufacturing Futures Initiative, Catalyst Connection and autonomous vehicle startup Aptiv at Hazelwood Green.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CMU and Catalyst have moved into the first building erected by the Regional Industrial Development Corp. as part of its Mill 19 redevelopment. Aptiv is set to move into a second building in that complex this spring.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Sam Reiman, director of the Richard King Mellon Foundation and Almono member, said landing GSVlabs took more than two years.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "With Carnegie Mellon University, Aptiv and now GSVlabs at Hazelwood Green, there is growing momentum for us to build Pittsburgh's - and the country's - new economy right in our own backyard - through the sustainable reuse of a historic site where the old economy was forged," Mr. Reiman said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Securing the tenant also is a momentum builder for Hazelwood Green, which has struggled to gain traction beyond the Mill 19 development.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 GSVlabs bills itself as a worldwide innovation platform with over 20,000 members, 450 investors and more than 100 enterprise partners in its network. It states that its mission "is to create the world's premier global innovation platform - empowering entrepreneurs and democratizing innovation around the world."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "As the first national startup accelerator to set up a permanent location in Pittsburgh, GSVlabs is demonstrating confidence in the vision established for Hazelwood Green as a place where innovation is fostered, anchored by the p4 principles of people, planet, place, and performance," Mayor Bill Peduto said in a statement.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Hazelwood Green roundhouse dates to 1887. It was used in part to service train engines.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In its redevelopment, Almono plans to incorporate original elements from the 10-bay structure, including the turntable and operator cab, crane, fume hood room, and rail tracks.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Almono already has replaced parts of the roof, removed an enclosure that was collapsing, and hauled away abandoned vehicles.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The roundhouse was built by the Monongahela Connecting Railroad and later owned by Jones&Laughlin Steel and the LTV Steel Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Mark Belko: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 mbelko@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  or 412-263-1262.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 MAP: ESRI, Post-Gazette; Redeveloped historic roundhouse, Hazelwood Green ; area of detail. \\ \\ MAP: ESRI, Post-Gazette; AREA OF DETAIL.\\ \\ PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: The 178-acre Hazelwood Green development landed a long-term lease with Global Silicon Valley Labs, which will turn the old locomotive roundhouse, foreground, into its next innovation hub.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0March 3, 2020
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 GROWING THE NEXT GENERATION OF DATA SCIENTISTS WITH THE HELP OF INDUSTRY
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 December 9, 2014 Tuesday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; BUSINESS FORUM; Pg. C-3
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0643 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Sriram Mohan
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Data, more than ever before, are the lifeblood of every organization. From media companies to retail stores, data allow organizations to differentiate themselves from the competition.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Whether used in market research or in cost reduction efforts, organizations must leverage data to be competitive, and for the most part they now enjoy access to all the data anyone could ever need.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 What most organizations today don't have ready access to are data scientists who are trained to turn all of their data into actionable insights.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Gartner predicts that by 2015, about 4.4 million 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  jobs will be available, and only a third of them will be filled. Is there a shortage of people with the requisite combination of programming, data management skills, and statistical and mathematical ability? Yes.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Can we in academia develop more of those people? Absolutely. But we are going to need the help of industry to accomplish that.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 As universities nationwide define and create new undergraduates and graduate 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  programs, industry can help to make our programs more interesting and relevant for students. We will also benefit from greater access to industry data sets and the latest big data technologies.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone , by its nature, is abstract, making it difficult to attract initial student interest. But in the real world, 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  is applied in many concrete, exciting ways that we can bring into our classrooms. The perceived gap between academia and industry is why I took a sabbatical this past year to work with Avalon Consulting, a big data consultancy headquartered near Dallas.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 The experience has proved invaluable. However, most, if not all, of what I learned came through hands-on experience in developing solutions.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 To make 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  concepts more interesting and tangible for students, we should provide them with similar hands-on opportunities.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 To that end, companies should organize contests for students that allow them to work on actual problems with real industry data sets (similar to the Netflix Prize). My university offers students a capstone project that challenges them to solve real-world problems provided through organizations such as Avalon and the U.S. Armed Forces. Such partnerships are a good start, but to educate data scientists, we need to do more.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Academia needs to stay up to date with the latest big data tool chains. Those ecosystems are evolving rapidly, but most of the development happens on the industry side - so much so that academia often finds itself left behind. If we want our students to be aware of the latest changes when they graduate, we must foster a better exchange of technological knowledge between academics and industry.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Industry typically uses summer internships to expose students to the latest technologies.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Such experiences could be extended to faculty as well. My colleagues at Rose-Hulman used industry experiences in the past to stay current in technologies such as Google Web frameworks, Android development and other programming languages.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Longer-term experiences, such as my training sabbatical, should also be considered. My experience led directly to development of new courses in Hadoop and modern database paradigms.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The time I spent working in the ever-changing world of Hadoop and NoSQL databases at Avalon was critical to those courses' development.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Given the rapid pace at which big data technologies are now advancing, it is imperative that academia and industry find additional ways to collaborate to better prepare our students for the workplace.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Once our students enjoy greater access to industry data sets and the latest big data technologies, we can bring more real-world problems, solutions and stories into the classroom and generate greater interest in 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The future for these students is bright, but industry collaboration is required to fully meet its demands.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Sriram Mohan is an associate professor of computer science and software engineering at Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology in Terre Haute, Ind.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0December 10, 2014
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 PEOPLE ON THE MOVE
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 August 25, 2019 Sunday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 FIVE STAR EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2019 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; DATELINE PITTSBURGH; Pg. D-3
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0635 words
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Turnaround Management Association, Pittsburgh, announced its 2019 officers and board of directors. President: David Duffus, Baker Tilly LLP; treasurer: Mary-Jo Rebelo, Burns White LLC; and executive director: Kelly Szejko, TMA Pittsburgh. Board members include: Robert Beer, F.N.B. Business Credit; David Chambers, Wells Fargo Bank; William Frederick, Schneider Downs Meridian LP; Robert McGuire, North Park Capital Partners; Kelly Neal, Buchanan Ingersoll&Rooney PC; Eric Rosenberg,
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Metz Lewis Brodman Must&O'Keefe LLC; Daniel Schimizzi, Whiteford Taylor Preston LLP; Jerome Schmitt, Jr., Gleason Experts; Jillian Nolan Snider, Tucker Arensberg PC; Megan Walsh, Sisterson&Co. LLP; and Dustin Wehman, CliftonLarsonAllen LLP. BANKING
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Adrianne Bernini joined F.N.B. Corp. as director of 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone . EDUCATION
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Nancy M.K. Merritt joined the University of Pittsburgh as vice chancellor for alumni relations.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Point Park University named Rep. Robert Matzie, a member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, to its board of trustees. He will be serving a three-year term.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The University of Pittsburgh's Swanson School of Engineering said Thomas Schutzius will join the chemical and petroleum engineering faculty as assistant professor. ENGINEERING
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Skelly and Loy promoted Brad Reese to technical services manager in its Pittsburgh office. LAW
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Leech Tishman Fuscaldo&Lampl, LLC said Julia Wu joined as an associate in its corporate and real estate practice groups. She focuses her practice in the areas of corporate, business and real estate law.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Eric VanKirk has joined Robb Leonard Mulvihill LLP as an associate. MANUFACTURING
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Industrial Scientific hired Parker Burke as senior vice president and general manager. SECURITY
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Guardian Protection appointed John Piroli as vice president, residential business; promoted Rich Sieman to a newly created role of director of field sales, April Maloney to director of sales operations; and hired Kristen Canale as director of human resources. WEALTH MANAGEMENT
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Bernstein Private Wealth Management, a unit of AllianceBernstein L.P., said Christopher Amar joined as vice president and financial adviser leading Bernstein's practice in Pittsburgh. AWARDS & HONORS
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Manhattan Institute named Steve Shelton of the Trade Institute of Pittsburgh one of its $25,000 Civil Society Award winners for 2019.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Applied Cloud Systems, a Managed Gold Microsoft Partner focusing on the Microsoft Cloud was named Barracuda's Cloud Partner of the Year. The award recognizes partners who deliver exceptional support for Barracuda and their product portfolio.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Youngjae Chun, associate professor of industrial engineering and bioengineering at the University of Pittsburgh's Swanson School of Engineering, received a funding award from the American Heart Association for his project creating a stent that will use sensors to monitor for signs of restenosis and alert the patient's doctor without the need for endless follow-up visits. Mr. Chun's project has been selected by the American Heart Association for its 2019 Innovative Project Award. The award includes a total of $200,000 over two years beginning on July 1, 2020. The project will be conducted through a multidisciplinary collaboration with W. Hong Yeo, assistant professor of Department of Mechanical Engineering at Georgia Tech, and John Pacella, MD, cardiologist at UPMC. BUSINESS NOTES
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Greg Teufel, managing member of his own small law firm, OGC Law, LLC, is creating a community where solo and small firm lawyers can work together under one roof. Law Office Spaces Mt. Lebanon is located at 1575 McFarland Rd.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Hoffmann Murtaugh, an integrated media agency specializing in media planning, buying, digital, social media, and public relations, opened an office in Cleveland. This is the agency's second office.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Dateline Pittsburgh appears on Sundays. To propose an item, send information to Natalie Hill, Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 358 North Shore Drive, Pittsburgh 15212; or email to 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 nhill@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  / Photos submitted for the print edition version of this column may be sent via email in JPEG format, 170 DPI, to 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 photos@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  Photo size should be an 8- by 10-inch or 4- by 5-inch head shot at 170 dpi. /
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Merritt - Education \\ \\ PHOTO: Matzie -- Education \\ \\ PHOTO: Reese -- Engineering \\ \\ PHOTO: Wu -- Law \\ \\ PHOTO: Burke -- Manufacturing \\ \\ PHOTO: Amar -- Wealth Management
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0August 27, 2019
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 PEOPLE ON THE MOVE: 9; 2; 2018
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 September 2, 2018 Sunday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 TWO STAR EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; Pg. C-2
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0680 words
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Accounting
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Grossman Yanak & Ford LLP promoted Kathryn Claudy and Emily Miller to senior associates in its assurance and advisory services group; Carissa Janczewski to marketing and recruiting coordinator; and Kathy Good to manager in the ERP Solutions Services Group.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Advertising
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Brunner hired Eric Perz, director, 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  and decision analytics; Justin Bowman, DevOps engineer; Chris Rowsick, project director; Eric Bueno, digital content creator; Katie Speers, technical recruiter/technical staffing consultant; Andrew Barrowman, social media strategist; Ashlee Bartko, search account manager -paid; and Lindsay Grystar, digital project manager.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Architecture
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Greg Smith was promoted to senior associate at WTW Architects.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Banking
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Nathan Smith joined Compass Federal Savings Bank as chief financial officer.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 First National Bank, the largest subsidiary of F.N.B. Corp., hired Brent J. Semachko as senior vice president, corporate community development officer.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Consulting
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Pittsburgh-based Cowden Associates Inc., an independent actuarial, compensation and employee benefits consulting firm in the tri-state region, has hired Peter Carlson and Zachary Kuhn as analysts in its health and benefits practice and Elizabeth Murn as an analyst in its retirement/actuarial practice.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Education
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The University of Pittsburgh School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences named Bernard Rousseau as the new chair of the Department of Communication Science and Disorders.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Health
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Genesis Medical Associates is adding gynecology to its medical services with the addition of Dr. Nicole M. Waltrip to the group. Dr. Waltrip will split her time between the Genesis Grob, Scheri, Woodburn & Griffin offices in Pine and the Genesis Northern Area Family Practice office in McCandless.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Insurance
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Will Simpson joined Simpson & McCrady, LLC as an account executive.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Law
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Fox Rothschild LLP said Rick L. Etter joined as a partner in its labor and employment practice.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Eckert Seamans said Matthew H. Meade joined as a member.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Janet L. McQuaid joined Babst Calland as senior counsel in its environmental and energy and natural resources groups.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Cozen O'Connor added four additional attorneys from Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney. Mariah L. Passarelli, Bethany C. Salvatore, Abigail M. Green and Tiffany A. Jenca have joined its labor and employment department and will focus on legal issues ranging from employment contracts to agency investigations.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Cohen & Grigsby, P.C. said Frank Kimmel has joined as an associate in its business transaction services group.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Eckert Seamans added member Edward C. Flynn to the firm's Pittsburgh office and litigation division. Mr. Flynn rejoins the firm from Cohen & Grace LLC, having left Eckert Seamans in 2011.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Museum
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Westmoreland Museum of American Art said Anne Kraybill was named the museum's new Richard M. Scaife Director/CEO.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Technology
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 4moms hired David Trabulsi as vice president of product development and operations.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 IAM Robotics said founder, Tom Galluzzo, will become the company's chief technology officer and names current vice president, Joel Reed, as the new chief executive officer.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Business notes
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Seubert & Associates Inc., headquartered in Pittsburgh, announced a second location in Greater Philadelphia and the District of Columbia region. Insurance and risk management veteran, Daniel Seltzer, will spearhead the endeavor.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Awards and Honors
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Gatesman said Aleya Crable Jennings was selected as a recipient of a 2018 Strong Award from Strong Women, Strong Girls.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Robroy Industries, a manufacturer of electrical products, received an award from The Electrical Distributor Magazine for efforts on its updated logo, a new website and other re-branding materials.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Dateline Pittsburgh appears on Sundays. To propose an item, send information to Natalie Hill, Dateline Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 358 North Shore Drive, Pittsburgh 15212; or email to 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 nhill@post-gazette.com
\f3\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f2\fs20 Photos submitted for the print edition version of this column may be sent via email in JPEG format, 170 DPI, to 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 photos@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  Photo size should be an 8-by-10-inch or 4-by-5-inch head shot at 170 dpi.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Smith - Banking
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Simpson - Insurance
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Etter - Law
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Kimmel - Law
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Trabulsi - Technology
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Kraybill - Museum
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Crable Jennings - Awards
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0September 2, 2018
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 FACEBOOK, OPEN UP; SEND ELECTION OBSERVERS TO WATCH THE PLACE
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 June 12, 2018 Tuesday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL; Pg. A-9
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0457 words
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Facebook insists that people can trust it to manage its giant social network in a way that doesn't undermine democracy. I say verify: Let's send in an army of scientists to study its role in the upcoming elections.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 There's too little research into how Facebook influenced the last election, even though there's plenty of reason to think it did. Search-engine rankings can affect voting preferences. Fake news was pervasive, though we still don't know who controlled it and how much it mattered.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Facebook likely has all the data it needs to study the effect of Russian propaganda. So far, though, we haven't heard from Facebook.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 This is a scientific issue, not an ideological one. We need to set up randomized experiments and test for causation. Such "A/B tests" -which, say, expose a treatment group to one headline and a control group to another -are standard practice in 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone . In the hands of respectable researchers, they could provide valuable insight into the state of democracy in the U.S. and elsewhere.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 What I'm proposing isn't entirely new. In April, Facebook announced that it would invite scholars to study the impact of social media on elections. Yet the details are sparse. True, some people worry that academics could get too much access to private data. That's not unreasonable, but it's also surmountable. It shouldn't excuse us from demanding a reckoning.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Facebook's efforts to provide more information on political ads won't solve the problem either. It might not catch every political ad - many aren't overtly political but perform associated emotional nudges. Also, the data are insufficient: It's important to know which people viewed an ad, not just how many. Then there's the question of whether an ad changed minds.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Only scientific tests can offer useful answers. It doesn't even matter whether we know in advance which ads to consider "political." A well-designed study would allow us to measure the effects after the fact, thanks to the millions of individuals who use Facebook. It's a scientific Garden of Eden if we can just make use of it.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Considering its recent scandals, Facebook should welcome the scientists. The company has pretty much zero claim to our trust in light of its failure to fulfill promises about the business model of WhatsApp and user privacy. It's conflicted in policing political ads, given how much money it makes on them. It should be ready to make concessions.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 We're long past the quaint days when people objected to Facebook manipulating their emotions with news feeds. Social media platforms have real influence, and we should measure it instead of trying to pretend it doesn't exist. The danger is that we demand too few studies, not too many. Let's err on the side of being more informed.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Cathy O'Neil is a Bloomberg Opinion columnist and the author of "Weapons of Math Destruction: How Big Data Increases Inequality and Threatens Democracy."
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0June 14, 2018
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 PUMP UP THE PROMISE; THE SCHOLARSHIP FUND PLAINLY NEEDS MORE SUPPORT
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 February 5, 2018 Monday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL; Pg. A-6
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0748 words
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 The Pittsburgh Promise college scholarship program is one of the city's greatest assets, an investment in education, workforce development and social mobility that speaks volumes to individuals and companies looking to move here. While the Promise says the decision last week to reduce maximum scholarship amounts reflects an effort to distribute its money more equitably across the student population, the change also is a reminder of the need for businesses and other entities to boost financial support of the program.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Promise reflects an aspirational Pittsburgh, the one trying to lure Amazon's second headquarters and avert an estimated shortage of 80,000 workers by 2025. This is a time - this may be the best time - to ramp up support.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Founded in December 2006 by then-Mayor Luke Ravenstahl and city schools Superintendent Mark Roosevelt, the Promise owes its existence to a $100 million gift from UPMC. To leverage the entire sum, the Promise was supposed to raise $150 million in matching funds over 10 years. The Promise missed the goal - it's still $50.4 million short - but UPMC provided all $100 million anyway. "It was not something that we considered foreign to our mission," the Promise quoted UPMC's CEO Jeffrey Romoff as saying about the gift."Indeed, it was something we considered to be essential to our mission."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 According to the Allegheny Conference on Community Development study that predicted the looming shortage of 80,000 workers, "seven of the top 10 fastest growing occupations are in health care." The other three - production/maintenance, 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  and information technology- also relate to UPMC's employment needs. UPMC's gift was generous- no disputing that - but it was also enlightened self-interest for an entity that wants to keep growing.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 UPMC, Amazon and other employers need a well-trained labor pool, which the Promise helps to provide by subsidizing students' university and technical school educations. Employers also need the Promise's scholarship incentives to address the long-term problems of attracting families to Pittsburgh and keeping young people here. They need the Promise, which ties scholarship to academic performance, to boost the academic profile of the Pittsburgh Public Schools so more workers with children will want to live here. They need the Promise, which reaches inner-city youths, to help produce more diverse, inclusive workplaces.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 UPMC isn't the only big entity supporting the program. The city's foundations, long thoughtful champions of progress, were among the program's earliest supporters. Highmark, BNY Mellon, PNC, American Eagle and Giant Eagle are among the businesses that have jumped on board. But given the connection between the Promise and the region's talent pipeline, many more should be contributing.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In 2015, the Promise announced it was dropping the maximum annual scholarship to $7,500 per student, down from $10,000. This was to ensure the program's long-term sustainability.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Last week, it announced more changes that executive director Saleem Ghubril says were driven by equitability, not sustainability. First, for students graduating high school in 2018 and thereafter, the maximum annual scholarship will drop to $5,000. The Promise also eliminated a policy that tied scholarship amounts to a student's length of enrollment in city schools, and it returned to allowing scholarship money to be used for room, board and books in addition to tuition.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Ghubril said the changes will benefit lower-income students, who get other grants to cover tuition but need help with room and board, as well as other students attending lower-cost schools. He estimates that the average annual scholarship will increase to $4,200, up from $3,400, and that many will get the full $5,000.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Parents who banked on higher amounts - perhaps so their children could attend higher-cost schools - were understandably upset at the changes. The Promise must be careful to balance its obligations to middle-class and lower-income families. This is an element of equitability and essential to the mission of attracting families to Pittsburgh and retaining those already here.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Recognition of the program's finite resources should galvanize Pittsburghers to work for a stronger, better funded Promise. Government and civic leaders should promote the program at every opportunity. Businesses that gave should encourage others to contribute, too. With the region's economy at stake, donors should be lining up at Mr. Ghubril's door.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0February 7, 2018
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 TECH TALENT POOL; STARTUPS GET CREATIVE IN RECRUITING INTERNS AS THEY ARE COMPETING AGAINST HOUSEHOLD NAMES SUCH AS GOOGLE AND AMAZON
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 August 9, 2018 Thursday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; Pg. D-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a01138 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Amy Qin, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Melaney Chen spends most of her day designing 3D models of camera parts that help Uber's autonomous vehicles see objects on the road. She then sends the specs downstairs to the machine shop, where they're built and tested.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I'll design something today and have a prototype tomorrow or the next day after that," said Ms. Chen, a rising senior at Cornell University who is completing a mechanical engineering internship on Uber's hardware team.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 With its sleek open-concept space and complimentary coffee bar at the Strip District-based engineering office, startups like Uber can conjure up romanticized images of the Silicon Valley scene.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Realistically, though, "startup culture" is not as homogeneous as you'd imagine and work experiences can vary wildly - even for summer interns. A student at a resource-strapped, early stage startup will have a very different summer from an intern at a company on the verge of going public.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 And competition for interns among companies is fierce.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Ride-hailing giant Uber, which is flush with cash, has the ability to hire nearly seven dozen student workers across the country, while smaller, lesser-known companies may not have the bandwidth or reputation to support even one.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "For tech startup hiring, a lot of it depends on funding or what contracts they get," said Kevin Collins, a senior assistant director at Carnegie Mellon University's Career and Professional Development Center. Startup size matters
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Although Uber hardly mirrors a startup anymore - the company employs 1,500 across its San Francisco, Toronto and Pittsburgh engineering offices and is valued at $62 billion -the location on 33rd Street still feels like one.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 That's because it's home to the Advanced Technologies Group responsible for self-driving tech. The office has more of a research and development focus and less bureaucratic structure.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 By virtue of Uber's growth, there are several measures in place that feel like a traditional company, like intern onboarding. Student workers are introduced to the company in the same weeklong module as permanent employees.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 At TravelWits, an Oakland-based startup that aggregates the cheapest combinations of flights and car travel, intern onboarding is far different because there isn't a human resources staff dedicated to internships.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Although the company has only six employees, it has managed to hire and train 10 interns over its four-year history, largely by developing a clever way to improve training with the help of past interns.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "With every intern that comes in, we'll have some sort of documentation, and, as the interns go through the process, they'll add to that documentation," co-founder Arman Bimatov said. Competing for interns
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 This year, Uber received more than 3,000 applications for 80 intern spots. That translates to a roughly 2 percent acceptance rate, placing Uber as one of the most selective internships in the country.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The interview process, which consists of multiple rounds of behavioral and technical challenges, is similar to how most tech firms recruit. Depending on the role sought, Uber's process consists of a mix of live coding challenges, virtual presentations and problem-solving projects.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 While interns compete for spots at companies like Uber, for smaller startups, the inverse is true: They must fight for interns.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 BlastPoint - which helps businesses harness the power of big data and maps - has to compete for talent with household names such as Google and Amazon. The East Liberty-based company, founded in 2016, has raised about $150,000 in a few seed rounds and now has eight employees.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Co-founder Alison Alvarez's strategy is to hire from what she terms "overlooked populations." She finds employees from coding bootcamps or even self-taught engineers rather than through the university recruitment system.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I'm sure there are a lot of companies in the Pittsburgh area that are struggling to hire data scientists. I'm just looking in a different place than a lot of those companies are," she said. From intern to job offer
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 As the tech industry has grown tremendously - this year, five tech firms delivered half of Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gains - so has demand for tech talent.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Employers at both large and small startups agree that an effective way to secure a "pipeline of talent" is to provide internship programs that lead to full-time jobs, according to Mr. Collins.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "A key reason we offer the internship program is for people to get their foot in the door and give them an idea of what it's like to actually work here," said Michaela Kron, public relations manager for Duolingo, an East Liberty-based language learning app that has a $700 million valuation.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The hiring rationale is a little different for smaller early-stage startups that may not have the scale for full-fledged internship programs.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "They're not as good as Google, for instance, at predicting their hiring needs nine months in advance," Mr. Collins said. "[Those] might change year to year, they might only need software engineers one year versus marketing students the next." Possible complications
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Last summer, John Curcio, a rising junior statistics major at CMU, joined BlastPoint as a 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  intern.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "John's name is actually on one of our patent applications, we had him doing real research," Ms. Alvarez said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 At small startup companies, intern contributions - and their level of access to company data - are not immaterial. They often make major contributions to code, develop product features or even design company logos. Firms must walk a fine line to ensure sensitive information is protected and that they're not overworking an intern.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Seth Oranburg, assistant professor of law and innovation at Duquesne University, said it's standard practice for tech companies to require that employees sign a Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement, along with sending their offer letter.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Signing it basically guarantees that any intellectual property produced by the employee belongs to the company.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "For unpaid internships, the educational benefits to the intern need to outweigh what the intern is giving up, in the case of startups, the intellectual property they're contributing to," Mr. Oranburg said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 If a company is sued over an unpaid internship, and the court rules in favor of the intern, all intellectual property agreements are nullified.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 At Uber, interns are paid a competitive salary and sign the same nondisclosure agreement that employees do, because all of them will either work on projects with or are exposed to sensitive company information.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I've always wanted to work in the transportation industry, and this is one of the most cutting-edge realms of it," said Ms. Chen at Uber. "Being here, you really do begin to see the possibility of having self-driving cars . knowing that it's possible and seeing how it's actually done is really inspiring."
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Amy Qin: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 aqin@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  or @AmyQin12.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Rebecca Lessner/Post-Gazette: Blair Wang, 19, an undergraduate tech intern from Beijing, works in one of the many \\ booths for employees last month in the lunchroom at the Duolingo headquarters in East Liberty. \\ \\ PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette photos: Sai Yalamanchi, left, of Carnegie Mellon University and Aaron Paczak of the University of Pittsburgh participate in an intern talk session at Uber Advanced Technologies Group in the Strip District. \\ \\ PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: The cafe area of Uber ATG in the Strip District features sleek open-concept space and a complimentary coffee bar, which can help startups like Uber to conjure up romanticized images of the Silicon Valley scene.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 \\
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0August 10, 2018
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 OBAMA TO VISIT CITY FOR INNOVATION CONFERENCE
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 August 31, 2016 Wednesday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0LOCAL; Pg. A-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0442 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Tracie Mauriello,\'a0Post-Gazette Washington Bureau
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama is heading to Pittsburgh in October to host the Frontiers Conference that the White House is convening along with the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University to explore the future of innovation.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Speakers will include some of the world's leading innovators, who will discuss reasons to invest in science and technology frontiers, according to the White House.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 They will discuss frontiers in heath care innovation, precision medicine, artificial intelligence, 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone , automation, robotics, space exploration, tools to accelerate the clean energy revolution and more, according to the White House.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Similar topics will be explored in the November issue of WIRED magazine, which the president will guest-edit.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Pitt chancellor Patrick D. Gallagher called the conference "a welcomed opportunity to bring notice to the city and its commitment to the importance of supporting research and development."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CMU president Subra Suresh said it will be a landmark event that will shine a national spotlight on life-enhancing technological breakthroughs.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In announcing the conference, the White House highlighted Pittsburgh's achievements in innovation. They include the following:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 * The city's effort to partner with CMU on self-driving technology to construct a 30-minute loop for autonomous shuttles between Hazelwood and Pittsburgh's urban jobs core.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 .The city's plans to modernize its traffic signal technology in order to reduce congestion, drive times and auto emissions.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 * The Pittsburgh Learning Hub, which helps veterans and service members expand employment opportunities.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 * PGH Lab, a program that encourages the city to utilize local startups to improve government services, city operations, citizen engagement and the environment.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 * MyBurgh, a location-based application that connects mobile device users with city services and allows them to track locations of snow plows.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 * Welcoming Pittsburgh, an immigrant and Latino integration strategy.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 * Boot Camp to End Veteran Homelessness, which has helped house hundreds.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Pittsburgh is a city perpetually looking to the future and reinventing itself. Today that means investing in its world-class universities, promoting startups, and remaking learning for the 21st century," said Tom Kalil, in announcing the conference.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Kalil is deputy director of technology and innovation for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "This vibrant and innovative city provides an excellent setting for the Frontiers Conference," he said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The event is planned for Oct. 13. Other details, including the exact location of the conference, were not available Tuesday.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Washington Bureau Chief Tracie Mauriello: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 tmauriello@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone ; 703-996-9229 or @pgPoliTweets.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: President Barack Obama will host the Frontiers Conference in October.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0September 1, 2016
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 WHY FEAR THIS RB? ANALYZE THE DATA
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 August 18, 2017 Friday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 VARSITYXTRA EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0SPORTS; FOOTBALL; Pg. LX-7
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0814 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Elizabeth Bloom, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Listing the NFL's top running backs is easy. Everybody can rattle off names such as Le'Veon Bell, Ezekiel Elliott or LeSean McCoy.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 But how about Mike Gillislee, who played backup in Buffalo in 2016? What about Rex Burkhead, who started one game for Cincinnati last year?
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 You may be thinking: Huh? But Gillislee and Burkhead were the No. 1 and No. 2 rushers in 2016, according to one advanced stat, called rushing success rate.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Rushing success rate measures the percentage of rushing attempts that increased a team's chances of scoring. The idea is to give more weight to a 5-yard run on a third-and-2 than a 12-yard run on third-and-20.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Still, if those names don't send shivers down Steelers fans' spines, this might: The New England Patriots signed both Gillislee and Burkhead this offseason.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "There's a reason why they're making these decisions," Ron Yurko, a Ph.D. student in statistics at Carnegie Mellon University, said of the Patriots.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 That reason is sports analytics, the analysis of data to inform team decisions on the field or in the front office. Now, Yurko, who is from Irwin, and CMU graduate Maksim Horowitz have opened up the world of football analytics to the public by developing nflscrapR, statistical software that displays data from every single NFL play since 2009.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The field of sports analytics has blossomed in recent years, and professional baseball (think "Moneyball") and basketball have led the way in making easy-to-use data available to the public.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "But football ..." Yurko said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "... has got to catch up," said his adviser, Rebecca Nugent.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Private companies such as Pro Football Focus and ESPN regularly comb NFL stats for their own ready-made rankings, but much of their data and methods are proprietary and subjective.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "During the fall semester of my senior year, I had a growing interest in daily fantasy football, and I was constantly looking for NFL data to analyze," Horowitz, who now works for the NBA, wrote in an email. "Unfortunately, at that time almost all the NFL data I found was protected by a paywall or was not in a usable format."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In contrast, nflscrapR (pronounced "NFL scraper") cleans up messy play-by-play data from the NFL's application programming interface and publishes it as is, along with expected points and win probability columns. (The data and other information are available on GitHub websites and the Carnegie Mellon Sports Analytics Club website.)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Nugent, associate department head and director of undergraduate studies in CMU's statistics department, described nflscrapR as a "massive contribution" to the field, not only because it provides a huge amount of information but also because it encourages open and reproducible data more broadly.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The name nflscrapR refers to the programming language R and also gives a hat-tip to nhlscrapR, a comprehensive hockey-focused package designed by CMU grad Sam Ventura and former CMU faculty member Andrew Thomas. Ventura, director of hockey research for the Penguins, mentors Yurko and Horowitz and is an outside adviser for the Carnegie Mellon Sports Analytics Club.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "The power of nflscrapR is in its flexibility to analyze the game at any level," Ventura said in an email. "Since the software provides data on every play from every game since 2009, it allows fans to break down individual player and team statistics by season, by game, by quarter, by drive, or by play."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Some of Yurko's findings from nflscrapR:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Bell provides Dez Bryant-like value as a receiver along with well-above-average rushing;
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Rushing, on average, decreases a team's expected points;
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Last season, Colin Kaepernick was the second most efficient rushing quarterback, after Dak Prescott, and was an average passer;
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Derek Carr, an MVP candidate in 2016, was in fact an average passer last year, but he was the No. 2 most clutch quarterback (after Matthew Stafford);
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Jared Goff was the worst quarterback last season by every metric;
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Roster stability is the most important predictor of a team's success, a fact that could work in the Steelers' favor in 2017;
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Running backs have the least predictable performances from year to year, especially if they change teams.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 (Maybe that last point can be a consolation to Steelers fans who are now worried about Burkhead and Gillislee.)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 While nflscrapR made its public debut in 2016, it's taken off in recent months. A Seattle website, for instance, has used the package to provide analyses of the Seahawks, and Yurko is presenting the work at analytics conferences throughout the country.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 nflscrapR will also be a focus of the first Carnegie Mellon Sports Analytics Conference, which will be held Oct. 28-29 in conjunction with the Tartan 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Cup. The conference features talks by Ventura, Steelers analytics expert Karim Kassam, ESPN's Brian Burke and others, Nugent said, and it's open to the public. Additional information is on the Carnegie Mellon Sports Analytics Club website.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Elizabeth Bloom: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 ebloom@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone , 412-263-1750 and Twitter: @BloomPG.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 CHART:Data from nflscrapR (Ron Yurko, et. al), Department of Statitics, Carnegie Mellon University; James Hilston/Post-Gazette: STEELERS VS. NFL IN EXPECTED POINTS/Offense: Expected Points Added (EPA) Per Attempt, 2009-16\\ \\ CHART:Data from nflscrapR (Ron Yurko, et. al), Department of Statitics, Carnegie Mellon University; James Hilston/Post-Gazette: STEELERS VS. NFL IN EXPECTED POINTS/Defense: Allowed Points Added (EPA) Per Attempt, 2009-16
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0August 19, 2017
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 RETAINING TALENT THE NEW CHALLENGE FOR PITTSBURGH AREA
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 May 15, 2014 Thursday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; INNOVATION; Pg. T-82
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a01399 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Deborah M. Todd, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh's majority salt-and-pepper haired population is making way for a migration of tech-savvy Gen Y'ers looking to start careers. But with a recent study ranking the region at the bottom of the heap in terms of talent retention, the question is how long will they stick around?
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Pittsburgh's Creative Clusters: What could Pittsburgh look like in 2020?" gives a comprehensive breakdown of demographics surrounding workers in communications, design, entertainment, fine arts, software/hardware, 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  and creative industry support services.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Among the highlights of the report is that the city is expected to jump from an estimated 176,940 workers today to more than 200,000 once the next decade begins.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The report was commissioned by the Pittsburgh Technology Council, Carnegie Mellon University, Dollar Bank and the Claude Worthington Benedum Foundation with Allison Park business and 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  consulting firm Echo Strategies.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 At the Allegheny Conference on Community Development's talent recruitment site ImaginePittsburgh, evidence of that jump is already being seen. More than half of the 20,000 job openings posted to the site require some form of tech experience.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 However, with the report ranking the region's talent retention efforts at 19th out of 20 benchmarked cities, it's hard to say just how far the bump in jobs will bump the regional population and economy.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 One thing made clear in recent reports: drawing talent in hasn't been the issue. Over the past eight years, Pittsburgh has torpedoed past eight comparable Midwestern cities when it comes to attracting the all-important 25- to 34-year-old demographic, according to a March Business Insider report.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 A breakdown of American Community Survey data showed that Pittsburgh saw a 12.4 percent increase in the number of 25- to 34-year olds during the period -- an increase more than four percentage points higher than the national average and bested only by a 12.7 percent increase in the Minneapolis/St. Paul region.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 With the young transplants accounting for 6.257 percent of the region's overall population increase -- compared to 1.411 percent of the Minneapolis/St. Paul increase -- Pittsburgh's infusion of young adults had the greatest impact among the cities studied.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In addition to youth, the Steel City has also spent the last decade bringing in the brains.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Jim Futrell, Allegheny Conference vice president of market research and analysis, said that between 2000 and 2012, the county has seen the number of 25- to 34-year olds with graduate degrees spike 51 percent. The region now has a higher proportion of college-educated young people than the national average.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Futrell partially credited the region's emerging tech workforce for the shift, but he said efforts to fold students into the community have gone a long way toward changing cultural perceptions of the region.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "When I started this position 12 years ago, a lot of the talk was that students come to the region, spend four years at Pitt or CMU and never leave Oakland," he said. "Now I see the focus that has been put on changing that. With universities giving students Port Authority access to make them more aware of opportunities in the city, the Penguins' college night promotions, all that has combined to help better connect college students to the community so now they're more aware of what the city has to offer."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The economic tide that swept legions of post-collegiate job-seekers out of Pittsburgh for nearly three decades is finally turning in the region's favor. And residents can only expect the flow of young job-seekers to increase.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 But Pittsburgh Technology Council president Audrey Russo believes the projections give a somewhat false sense of security in a region that needs to do all it can to keep creative workers on local payrolls.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Ms. Russo said the Creative Industries report largely credits the future increase in creative class workers to non-creative companies, such as law firms and hospitals adding positions for information technology managers, mobile software developers and other technology-related positions.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 And while more tech and creative positions are expected in coming years, she said there may not be enough in the short-term to hold on to top-tier university students.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We have a large number of university graduates, so really the issue is we have a surplus of graduates -- many of whom are from elite schools -- and not enough entry-level job opportunities," she said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Even with newly created entry-level positions, the region could still lose its emerging creative class workers without mid-career and executive jobs for them to transition into, said Mr. Futrell.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 He and Meredith Fahey, Allegheny Conference project director who heads talent attraction organization ImaginePittsburgh, said the organization shifted directions in January 2013 because regional employers were having difficulty finding experienced employees between ages 38 and 45 to fill C-level executive positions.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Today, the ImaginePitsburgh website highlights the region's career advancement opportunities, affordable housing, public schools, and arts and cultural events designed to attract up-and-coming singles and new families. One of the most important features is a cost-of-living calculator that lets people know just how much bang someone could get for their paycheck in Pittsburgh versus their current city.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Promoting just how far a dollar can stretch is a more solid bet than some might realize, particularly when candidates can be discouraged by the region's relatively low wages, said Bobby Zappala, founder of East Liberty-based startup accelerator Thrill Mill.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Creative Clusters study ranked Pittsburgh's average creative sector wage of $43,561 per year at 15th out of 20.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 However, with Pittsburgh's annual composite cost-of-living index -- which accounts for the average monthly rents and housing costs, transportation costs and expenses associated with average price levels for consumer goods and services -- ranking the third lowest among an index of 15 metropolitan areas, according to regional data analysis organization Pittsburgh Today, lower wages don't equal a lower quality of life.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I have friends in New York who make a million dollars a year but can't buy a house," Mr. Zappala said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In addition, recent efforts to help newcomers break into traditionally tight inner social circles have been critical, said Ms. Fahey.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Initiatives such as dinners for newcomers hosted by Vibrant Pittsburgh's Welcome Center; Pittsburgh Urban Magnet Project's adult sport teams and civic engagement initiatives; and ImaginePittsburgh's own Imagine Neighbors program, which connects longtime residents with newcomers in their neighborhood, have all helped to break open a social scene formerly known for a degree of insulation.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 For Branden Ballard, president of the Urban League Young Professionals of Pittsburgh, making after-hours connections is one of the greatest factors surrounding whether Pittsburgh becomes home or a launching pad for incoming residents.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Over the course of seven years, Mr. Ballard said a 70/30 ratio in favor of Pittsburgh residents joining the organization versus newcomers has flipped, with 70 percent of today's members coming from out of town. While most of the newcomers build friendships and relationships through the membership, those who fail to fall into a social circle are usually off to a new city within a few years.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Pittsburgh can do a much better job of marketing things that are going on because, unless a person finds a certain circle of people who are in the know, they will not know what's going on," he said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Those who do find kindred spirits in the region are far more likely to stick around, according to a recent survey conducted as part of Pittsburgh Urban Magnet Project's strategic plan. The survey of more than 1,000 25- to 34-year-old members showed that half of respondents are somewhat committed to staying in the region and that 44 percent were solidly committed to laying down roots, said CEO Brian Magee.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Although a glaring lack of diversity in the Pittsburgh region that earned the bottom rank in the Creative Industries report is still a barrier to attraction, ongoing economic and social progress has given stakeholders an image to sell that goes beyond a past steeped in steel.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "This is not your grandfather or grandmother's Pittsburgh," said Allegheny Conference spokesman Philip Cynar.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 TOP 50 BUSINESS / IN THE LEAD / Deborah M. Todd: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dtodd@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone , 412-263-1652 or Twitter: @deborahtodd. /
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Connor Mulvaney/Post-Gazette: Pictured: Carnegie Mellon student Kevin Louie takes a photo of fellow students Dan Kelley, Dale Zhang and Mahir Kothari interacting with a chalk drawing by Benjamin and Cherish Hummel of Golden, Colo., on the sidewalk outside the Carnegie Mellon University Center.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Connor Mulvaney/Post-Gazette Carnegie Mellon student Dominique Chamely flips burgers with CMU LGBTQ resources coordinator Meg Evans at an LGBTQ awareness event on CMU's campus April 1.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0May 17, 2014
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 CELL PHONE WARNING GETS PEOPLE'S ATTENTION
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 August 7, 2008 Thursday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOUTH EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0METRO; Pg. S-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0800 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Virginia Kopas Joe, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Mary Johnston has found a new weapon in her ongoing battle to limit her family's cell phone use.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Scare tactics. And she's not talking her frightening monthly bill.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The universal popularity of the cell phone took a hit last week when the head of the prestigious University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute warned that it could have health risks, especially to younger users.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The safety issue is far from a consensus among researchers, but the respected Dr. Ronald Herberman said in a memo to 3,000 faculty and staff that a "growing body of literature" suggests that cell phones have "possible adverse health effects, including cancer."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The memo caused a media frenzy, was reported on by all major news outlets and was a call-in segment on "Larry King Live" last week. Dr. Herberman now plans to conduct a research project on the subject.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 For Ms. Johnston, of White Oak, the warning is "a godsend."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "The truth is," the mother of three teenagers said, "we don't know how cell phones will affect us down the line. They are a relatively new phenomenon. I've lost the battles on phone safety -- some of my family actually drives while talking -- to say nothing of the cost of [a plan for three teenagers and a husband who travels].
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "With this report, I got their attention now -- at least for a while," Ms. Johnston said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Among Dr. Herberman's recommendations to minimize risks: Reduce length of conversations; use speaker phones, headsets or hand-held devices instead of holding phone to the ear; keep phone battery away from your body; keep children away, except for emergency calls. He also recommended that younger people text, rather than call.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 But Mrs. Johnston thinks the latter is "only a marginally safer idea.''
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I've seen people text while they drive,'' she said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 We Asked, You Said
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Whether the cell phone report is one that merits a family roundtable remains to be seen. Still, when we asked, we found that some residents of the South Hills are erring on the side of caution. Others want more info before making an important lifestyle change.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "This just confirms for me the concerns I already had [about] brain cancer,'' said Robert Matzen, of Bethel Park.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Now I am really careful to keep my conversations short,'' said Mr. Matzen, 46, an independent filmmaker for Paladin Communications, of Bethel Park.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Similarly, Dena Zaimes, 60, of Upper St Clair, said that now she and her husband are "definitely interested in buying a hands-free device for our car."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Already, she said, the couple tries to "shorten conversations and we are more aware of where the phone is placed."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mrs. Zaimes is the owner of Elegant Accent Catering in Upper St. Clair.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Vicki Yehnert, of Bethel Park, said she is considering the use of more technology.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I just learned of a device that claims to negate the effects. It's a little disc that you put in your cell phone to eliminate the electromagnetic fields. So my plan is to purchase it,'' said Mrs. Yehnert, 55, a homemaker.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The report, said Rachelle Pasquini, of Baldwin Borough, "created a big conversation in our house."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Ms. Pasquini, 44, who works at Allegheny Children's Initiative on the South Side, said she now "refuses to let my kids get a cell phone until they are at least 16."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Also paying heed is Joanne McKown, of Whitehall.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Now I carry my cell phone with the battery away from me,'' said Ms. McKown, 51, manager at Curves in Brentwood Town Square.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Hands-Free Phones
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Many are going to Bluetooth, or hands-free wireless technology.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I work [in academic affairs] at Pitt, and I'm paying attention to the report. Now I plan to get Bluetooth and told my kids to text, not call,'' said Carol Tatrai, 49, of West Homestead.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Stephanie Dickson, of Homestead, sees it another way.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I don't like Bluetooth, it scares me, people talking to themselves. I do text message. Does that mean I'll get finger cancer?'' asked the 25-year-old waitress at Mitchell's Fish Market at The Waterfront.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Health scare or not, many we talked to said they will not alter what has become a way of life. It's estimated that about 3 billion cell phones are used each day.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Michael Folino, of Beechview, is among the users.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "There's not enough 
\f0\i\b \ul data. Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  always flip-flops on what is good for you or bad for you. One day eggs are good and the next day they're bad. Wine is bad and then wine is good,'' said Mr. Folino, 29, who owns Folino Brothers Pizzeria in Scott.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Daniel Burns, a Duquesne policeman, also is not limiting his use.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "These days, someone finds something wrong with anything new. I've not seen any definitive medical evidence, so I won't limit use," said Mr. Burns, 45, of Duquesne.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "In my business, I travel and need to be in touch all the time,'' said Douglas Wesolek, 28, of Dormont, who owns West Liberty Detailing in that town.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I can't give up this convenience. Remember, we're all going to die someday.''
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Freelance writer Dev Meyers contributed to this report./ Virginia Kopas Joe can be reached at 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 vkjoe@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  or 412-263-1414.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0August 8, 2008
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 CONSUMERS A MIXED BAG NEAR HOLIDAYS, POLL FINDS
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 December 16, 2012 Sunday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 FIVE STAR EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; WORK ZONE; Pg. G-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0429 words
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Amanda Godley used to make all sorts of crafts and projects for the people on her holiday gift list.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 She made photo albums and sewed presents. One year, she found a craft clock to build for her family members.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 That was then.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Now she is a full-time professor of English education at the University of Pittsburgh. She is one of four drivers in her son's carpool to musical theater while her daughter is involved in basketball and soccer. This fall, she and her husband trained for and ran a marathon.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The time she once spent selecting the right fabrics is long gone.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Now she does what so many workers do: She fits her holiday preparations around everything else.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 At least, as a professor, the semester is over and "I can squeeze in shopping between grading and meetings," she said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "If I find a gift online, I try to think of how many people can I buy this for."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 A little over a week ago, a phone poll by the NPD Group, a Port Washington, N.Y.-based information company, and CivicScience, an East Liberty-based data research company, found that 41 percent of all Christmas shoppers had not started their shopping yet.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Those people who had not started shopping can look enviously to the 15 percent of consumers who reported they had completed their shopping. That was just slightly more than the 13 percent who said they wouldn't start shopping until the final 10 days before Christmas.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Ross McGowan, CivicScience's director of 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone , said shoppers this year aren't just out to get a surprise for someone special, 30 percent of them are buying something special for themselves, too.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 People also reported they were buying more gifts online and giving gift cards instead of picking out presents.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Despite a large, daily influx of commuters, Downtown shopping remains a weather-related activity.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Samuel Cournoyer of Chicago, who is manning the Alpine Heritage hut in Market Square, said when it rains the shoppers are gone, but when the weather is nice there are good weekday crowds.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "A lot of people say 'I've got to go, I'm on my lunch break,' " he said. He finds that after a look or two at lunch, the same shoppers return to buy something later.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Tina Lowers, regional manager of the Crazy Mocha coffee shops Downtown, said one of the benefits of her job this time of year is the proximity to shopping.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 While making her rounds of Crazy Mocha locations, she said, "I'll hit Macy's and Burlington [Coat Factory]. And there's that line of smaller stores on Fifth Avenue."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 But as of last week, Ms. Lowers was a member of the 15 percent who didn't plan to start shopping until the last 10 days.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Ann Belser: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 abelser@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  or 412-263-1699./
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 DRAWING Daniel Marsula/Post-Gazette: No Caption
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0December 20, 2012
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 DATACOLUMN INTEGRATES STYLISH GIBBERISH.COM
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 March 9, 1997, Sunday,
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 TWO STAR EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS,; HYPERTEXT
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0669 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0MICHAEL NEWMAN
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 It used to be easy to figure out what companies did. U.S. Steel made steel. Heinz made ketchup. Mellon took your money.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Nowadays, it's more difficult. U.S. Steel became USX and bought an oil company. Heinz makes frozen dinners and dog food. Mellon still takes your money, but sometimes it calls itself Dreyfus.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The advent of the Computer Era has greatly complicated things. Now there are companies with unpronounceable names that do inexplicable things. Our text this week is the 1997 directory of the Pittsburgh High Technology Council.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Granted, most company names are notoriously meaningless - have you ever stopped to think what exactly ''Microsoft'' means? - but high-tech companies tend to outdo each other in this regard. One of the fiercest battlegrounds can be found under the letter D, as in ''data.''
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The directory lists Data Resource Management, 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Automation, Data Task, DataMatrix Systems, Datasoft USA, DataTrain Institute and DataTran. Many more have data somewhere else in their names, but I didn't have all day.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Several forces are at work here. Foremost is the very use of the word ''data.'' Do you think people would take seriously a company called Information Task? Or one called FactTran? It sounds like one of those healthy breakfast cereals. (Oops. Sorry. I must have been thinking of FactBran.)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Another key strategy is the clever use of capital letters in the middle of words. This immediately signifies your company as futuristic and forward-looking.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Think about it: Would you buy a used car from a place called Joe's Junk Yard? Probably not. What if it were called JoesJunk? Gee, you'd say, this Joe seems like a hip kinda guy. Maybe I'll take a look. Rename it JoesDataJunk and Joe's sales reach a million dollars in six months.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Perhaps your company has an honored family name and sells old-fashioned products, like ''Uncle Fred's Typewriter Repair.'' Don't despair. Just add a ''.com'' to the end of your name and advertise a Web site, even if you don't have one. It's the name that counts.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Of course, no amount of clever nomenclature can hide the fact that almost nobody - including, probably, some of the people who work there - can figure out what these companies actually do.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Open the 1997 high-tech book at random. Here is a company that ''is dedicated to providing communications solutions for clients through the use of paper and electronic-based products.'' Paper? Are they serious? They must have thought this was the low-tech council.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Worse, the company's solutions aren't even innovative. Doesn't it understand that people want innovative solutions, or at least integrated ones? Plain old ''communications solutions'' don't cut it anymore.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Here is a company that ''integrates leading-edge technologies to solve business-critical problems in key market segments.''
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Clearly, this is a company that knows what it's doing. I count at least four buzzwords in that description, and I'm not even an expert. I have no idea what they do. They're hired.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Here is a company that ''designs and manufactures modular adsorption equipment for liquid and vapor-phase purification in process and environmental applications.''
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Hmm. I think I'll just call a plumber.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Here is a company that ''develops and markets application development products and services for building large-scale, mission-critical applications that are graphical, distributed, and cross-platform.''
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 At the risk of exposing my ignorance, I must confess that I am totally lost. Maybe it's not all my fault. This description could use a little zip. How about this:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 ''Our company develops innovative and integrated solutions for large-, small- and medium-scale buildings - any of which Superman could leap in a single bound! We also distribute 'Mission: Impossible' (starring Tom Cruise) applications that contain some graphic violence on train platforms. Viewer discretion is advised.''
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 There. Doesn't that sound better? I don't know about you, but I'm going out to get mine right away. Just one question: What is it I'm looking for, exactly?
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0March 12, 1997
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 DATA DRIVEN; HAL VARIAN, GOOGLE'S CHIEF ECONOMIST, SAYS STATISTICIAN WILL BE 'THE SEXY JOB IN THE NEXT 10 YEARS.' CHAD SCHAFER EXPLAINS WHY.
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 August 4, 2013 Sunday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 TWO STAR EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a01631 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Chad Schafer
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 There is growing recognition of the value of careful analysis of the vast quantity of information on consumer and market behavior. Corporations repeatedly promote their use of "analytics" to "harness the power of big data." For statisticians, however, the value of data is old news. This year has been designated the "International Year of Statistics" to highlight the central importance of statistics in managing a 21st-century data overload.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Given misconceptions about statistics, it is not surprising that some people would attempt to rebrand the field as "analytics." Statisticians are not accountants, nor are they the source of colorful charts in newspapers. The work of statisticians is neither tabulating nor archiving numerical information. Instead, the field of statistics is engaged in the pursuit of knowledge from these data. Methods of statistical analysis are built on a foundation of mathematics and then utilized in all areas of science, medicine, public policy, industry and so forth.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In fact, statistical analysis is an integral part of the research process. The data gathered as part of a study (a clinical trial to test a new treatment for a disease, for example), rarely yield a clear-cut answer to the question that motivated that study. Statistical methods are constructed to handle the uncertainty present in the data and to translate those data into the strongest conclusions possible.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 For example, the Biostatistical Center of the Pittsburgh-based National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project evaluates therapies for the prevention and treatment of breast and colorectal cancer. In more than 50 years of research, this group, led by University of Pittsburgh biostatistics professor Joseph Costantino, has made substantial contributions, including the initial studies that demonstrated the value of tamoxifen in reducing the incidence of breast cancer in women at high risk for the disease.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 But none of these studies produced clean, simple-to-interpret results. It is never the case that 100 percent of the patients respond to the treatment under study with a positive outcome. What success rate is required in order to deem a treatment a success? Any success rate derived from the study necessarily will be an estimate. How many patients should be enrolled to ensure that the uncertainty in this estimate is acceptably low? How should one adjust for patients' age differences? These questions, and many more, are issues that the statisticians involved in these studies must address with mathematical tools in order to develop and apply appropriate statistical methods.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The statisticians of the NSABP are not consultants but full members of the scientific collaboration, contributing to all stages of design, execution and interpretation of studies. The growing number of institutes that bring together statisticians and scientists speaks to the importance of these contributions.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 For more than 60 years, the Rand Corp. has performed research in areas ranging from energy policy to healthcare reform. The Statistics Group is an important component of these projects, providing the statistical analysis expertise that makes sense of the available data. The statistical analysis of public-policy data is particularly challenging because policy interventions often have outcomes that are difficult to quantify.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 For example, the Pittsburgh office of Rand has an ongoing emphasis on research aimed at improving education. Statistician Claude Setodji collaborated on a study testing New York City's decision to end social promotion in schools. A major challenge in such a study is finding students to compare with those who are retained in grade by the new policy. Statisticians and education researchers worked together closely to find such a group based on the rules for who could and could not be promoted and found that the policy was having a positive effect on students.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Through their collaborative research, statisticians often develop subject-matter expertise, and their insights are highly valued. Multiple faculty members in Pitt's Department of Statistics are also members of the Department of Psychiatry. These include Yu Cheng, who has completed research ranging from assessments of smoking-cessation programs to the benefits of mental-health services as part of pediatric care, and the Statistics Department chairman, Satish Iyengar, who develops statistical methods for analyzing data from experiments in neuroscience.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 * * *
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Thirty years ago, it may not have seemed necessary to involve statisticians in neuroscience research because the amount of data was limited. Technological advancements have led to massive growth in the quantity and quality of information available. This is a recurring situation: Technology enables new, richer sources of information, but making sense of these data requires more sophisticated methods of analysis.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 It is now possible to determine your entire DNA sequence in a reasonable amount of time -- and for less than $1,000. There is significant potential for improvements in the diagnosis and treatment of conditions and diseases with a genetic basis. For example, professors Bernie Devlin of the University of Pittsburgh and Kathryn Roeder of Carnegie Mellon University are part of a nationwide, multi-institution consortium studying the genetic causes of autism. Their recent work has demonstrated that there is a contribution to autism cases from genetic mutations that are present in children but not inherited from their parents.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 This finding came only after statistical analysis of the full genetic sequence data of the affected children and their parents. Researchers also had to account for natural genetic variability. Ultimately, it was estimated that up to 15 percent of autism cases could be attributed to these mutations. Hence, although this is a significant step, there is much more work to be done to understand the causes of this condition.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Port Authority buses provide another example of the challenges and benefits of working with complex data collections. The buses are equipped with devices that record massive amounts of information regarding the timing and location of all stops. As part of CMU's Traffic21 initiative, statistics professor Bill Eddy has worked with graduate students analyzing these data with the objective of improving transit in the busy Downtown corridor.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 To fully exploit the data, the team had to work to understand the synchronization of the traffic lights on Forbes and Fifth avenues through Oakland and how the synchronization affects the buses (for which the timing was not designed). This particularly affects the buses that run against traffic on Fifth Avenueand are forced to stop at every light. Results of the statistical analysis showed that simple adjustments in the timing pattern could shorten travel times.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 * * *
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Students, eager to gain experience in cutting-edge statistical analyses, have played a key role in each of these research projects. The level of interest in learning methods of statistical analysis has grown tremendously. Enrollment in many statistics courses at local universities has doubled over the past five years.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 This demand is driven by employers that have seen tremendous gains from statistical approaches to market research, risk assessment and quality control. Eliezer Batista, technology manager at Alcoa, uses statistical methods to proactively identify and address production problems. These tools, which allow for the determination of ideal operating settings and for the reduction of variability in the aluminum-production process, have been instrumental in Alcoa's sustainability approach to reducing energy consumption.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Ross McGowan, director of 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  at CivicScience in East Liberty, analyzes the results of voluminous amounts of consumer-survey data to identify new marketing opportunities for companies. He and Mr. Batista recently received master's degrees in statistics from CMU. The relatively new program teaches statistical methods and practice to students of varied undergraduate backgrounds.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Statisticians often are criticized for their tendency to avoid making strong statements and instead to qualify any conclusions with cautionary statements regarding the limitations of analysis procedures. Statisticians are comfortable with uncertainty in their conclusions; they know it is an accurate reflection of the realities of working with data.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 STATISTICS IN EVERYDAY LIFE
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 You have two tickets to an upcoming Pirates game, but you are unable to attend. You decide to sell the tickets online, but at what price?
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Your decision is based on several factors, including the quality of the Pirates' opponent, the weather forecast, the pitching match-up and current ticket prices. You also may rely on your intuition and any experience with previous sales.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 There is uncertainty, both in the data (will it rain?) and in the best way to combine the data into the chosen sales price. Your choice is only an estimate of the ideal price.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 This type of decision process is made formal by statistical methods of prediction. A statistical prediction model uses available past information to construct a mathematical formula to estimate the quantity of interest (in our example, the ideal price for the tickets).
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mike Shuker, senior marketing research consultant at Larimer-based Management Science Associates, leads projects that construct statistical models for these situations. Working with major U.S. and international symphonies, MSA uses historical concert programming features (such as time and day and soloist and composer information) to develop highly accurate statistical models to forecast demand for future concerts. This forecast helps the symphony with budgeting and planning, and it replaces the "intuitive" estimates previously used.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Chad Schafer (
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 cschafer@cmu.edu
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone ) is associate professor in the Department of Statistics at Carnegie Mellon University. He is a member of the McWilliams Center for Cosmology, a collaboration of astronomers, computer scientists and statisticians at CMU. He recently served as president of the Pittsburgh Chapter of the American Statistical Association.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 DRAWING: Daniel Marsula/Post-Gazette: No Caption
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0August 6, 2013
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 DOWN TO EARTH; PITTSBURGH DRONE MASTERS WORK TO DEMYSTIFY UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEMS FOR THE GENERAL POPULATION
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 July 13, 2014 Sunday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 TWO STAR EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; Pg. D-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a01264 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Deborah M. Todd, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 On a cloudless 75-degree day in Sewickley's Blueberry Hill Park, as parents divided attention between peewee lacrosse and toddlers racing on grassy mounds around the field, eyes in the sky were capturing it all.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Conversely, the moment that the Pittsburgh Drone Masters meetup group sent the first of three DJI Phantom Quadcopters - 21st-century remote control aircraft decked out with high-definition cameras and GPS capability - 60-feet vertical, all eyes on the ground darted from the sky to the men behind the controls.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 With laws and opinions surrounding use of unmanned aerial systems - commonly known as drones - in a state of flux, the moment in the spotlight was more glare than glow for drone master Tom Reinsel.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I never fly in front of people," said Mr. Reinsel, a serial entrepreneur and Sewickley resident who said he usually flies on a Blueberry Hill Park hill with a little less foot traffic.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Taking the opposite approach, the group's founder, Micah Rosa of the South Side, said the attention offered a chance to demystify the technology for a population that will have to adjust to a future with drones sharing the skies.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 With Hong Kong-based DJI's models retailing online anywhere from $600 for a basic model to $1,500 for a model equipped with a GoPro camera, many Pittsburghers have probably already come across a drone, including one that flew over PNC Park during a Pirates game late last month. The operator landed after a warning from Pittsburgh police, but the Federal Aviation Administration pursued an investigation of the incident regardless.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Whether it's online or in person, Mr. Rosa has taken on the duty of telling the public that drones are the evolution of the model plane - not a device made to remotely peek into bedroom windows or to launch missiles at unsuspecting citizens.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I'm big on education, so I try to be found in search results so that I can bring [drones] out in a good light," Mr. Rosa said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Between amateur enthusiasts, tech-savvy police departments and a White House order to explore commercial use by 2015, drones are simultaneously coming and already here for the American public.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The question for entrepreneurs sitting on business plans tied to unmanned flight is when they will be able to join an industry estimated to reach $89 billion globally in the next decade, according to Fairfax, Va.-based aerospace research company Teal Group.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Commercial drones are currently banned in the U.S., but the FAA is allowing private companies to test flights by using experimental airworthiness certificates. It has established six research and testing sites to explore safety, privacy and other concerns surrounding the technology.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 On Friday, online retailer Amazon applied for a certificate to conduct testing in Seattle for drones traveling up to 50 miles per hour as part of its proposed Amazon Prime Air delivery service. The company has yet to receive a response from the FAA.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Industry insiders predict the nation won't see drones en masse until sometime next decade. FAA officials say the process, no matter how lengthy, will make safety the top priority.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We have a mandate to protect the American people in the air and on the ground, and the public expects us to carry out that mission," said FAA administrator Michael Huerta.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 If the nation's technology sector is denied domestic entry to the drone market much longer, it may be difficult to stage a comeback, according to Mario Mairena, government relations manager for Arlington, Va.-based trade group Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Mairena will be in Pittsburgh today for the General Aviation Conference at the Downtown Omni William Penn Hotel. His goal is to promote the future of commercial unmanned aerial systems, which the organization predicts will bring 2,000 jobs and $400 million to the state in its first three years.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "The fact that we're not able to fly commercially yet makes it hard to be economically competitive globally when it comes to unmanned aerial systems. Our international partners are flying commercially and have been for quite some time," Mr. Mairena said, adding that Japan has been using unmanned aerial systems to monitor agriculture for the past decade.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Even with the FAA's latest actions, the period of uncertainty has become something of a hurdle for investment, said Dick Zhang, founder of South Side-based Identified Technologies, an industrial unmanned aerial systems company.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Zhang said his company has garnered interest from dozens of investors who backed off when they realized the state of national laws. Identified Technologies' drones are designed to fly themselves around industrial sites such as oil rigs and construction zones to survey the grounds, analyze data captured, and automatically send results back to the home company.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The company has raised $400,000 so far, but Mr. Zhang said it could have raised much more with clear federal guidelines for the industry.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Unfortunately, a lot of people don't like cloudy [rules]," he said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 With tens of thousands of dollars per assignment on the line for site inspections, aerial photography and other drone-friendly functions, many businesses are skirting the law to film for profit. A recent ruling by the National Transportation Safety Board said the FAA has "no enforceable rule" that applied to a drone hobbyists' aircraft has added to the confusion.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The FAA has issued guidance for model airplane operators since then, but individuals looking for shortcuts around the law aren't paying attention.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "It's a scofflaw type of thing right now. Nobody cares," said Patrick Egan, a former member of the FAA's small Unmanned Aerial Systems Aviation Rulemaking Committee who advocates drone use for business. Mr. Egan said companies dodge FAA detection by conducting business strictly through their websites or taking payments for services unrelated to the actual flight.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 As much as he sympathized with businesses operating in the shadows, Mr. Egan also would like to see quick clarification of the laws to ensure everyone's safety.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "The FAA always talks about the safety of people on the ground and in the air, but the very people that have extracted themselves from the business are licensed pilots. They're removed from the [unmanned aerial systems] industry because they have licenses and certification, but they don't want to get busted and lose their licenses," Mr. Egan said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Whether it's a commercial flight delivering a pizza or an amateur shot of a park, privacy and safety are top public concerns in the age of the drone, according to a poll conducted for the Post-Gazette by Strip District 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  firm Civic Science.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Of 3,007 poll respondents, 84 percent nationwide and 81 percent of Pittsburghers polled said they were concerned about drones. For them, the biggest issues were privacy, surveillance and trespassing in Pittsburgh and across the nation, followed by safety, reliability and property damage.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Amateur enthusiasts such as the Drone Masters will continue to abide by laws prohibiting flying near airports and air traffic, flying above 400 feet and using aircraft heavier than 55 pounds. However, Mr. Reinsel predicted licensing, safety and privacy requirements that could fall upon commercial drone pilots might be a next step for amateurs under new laws.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 He's more than OK with an outcome that separates the peeping Toms and hobbyists flying over PNC Park from the majority of unmanned aerial system hobbyists.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "There are people that abuse technology and people that are good. We need rules to take care of the people who abuse the technology," Mr. Reinsel said.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Deborah M. Todd: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dtodd@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  or 412-263-1652. Twitter: @deborahtodd.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Micah Rosa, 23, of the South Side with a quadcopter drone. He is one of the founders of the Pittsburgh Drone Masters. \\
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Bill Wade/Post-Gazette photos: From left: Rich Manko of Sewickley, Tom Reinsel of Franklin Park, Max Richardson of Sewickley and Micah Rosa of the South Side, are Pittsburgh Drone Masters members with some of their quadcopter drones in Blueberry Hill Park. \\
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PHOTO: Bill Wade/Post-Gazette photos: Rich Manko of Sewickley, left, and Max Richardson of Sewickley prepare a quadcopter drone to fly in Blueberry Park, as the Pittsburgh Drone Masters members meet. For a video, visit post-gazette.com.\\
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CHART: CivicScience, Inc.; Post-Gazette: Poll: residential drone use
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0July 15, 2014
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 FINALISTS ANNOUNCED FOR TECH 50 AWARDS
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 August 28, 2012 Tuesday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; Pg. A-9
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0342 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Deborah M. Todd, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 This year's crop of nominees for Pittsburgh Technology Council's Tech 50 Awards will have a chance to show gala attendees not only who they are, but what they do.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Finalists will showcase their company's work and mission during the Tech 50 Showcase of Innovation, which will take place before the awards gala at the Wyndham Grand Pittsburgh Downtown on Nov. 1. The council will also recognize its 30-year anniversary with a review of what's happened in the region's tech sector over the course of three decades.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The council announced the finalists for this year's Tech 50 Awards Monday at its South Oakland office. The event was streamed live through Monroeville-based online teleconferencing company Concert-Oh. The finalists are:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Advanced Manufacturing: Calgon Carbon Corp., Conspec Controls Inc., Industrial Scientific Corp. and Matric
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Innovator: Aquion Energy Inc., Bayer MaterialScience LLC, CombineNet Inc, Epiphany Solar Water Systems LLC, kWantera, Liquid X Printed Metals, Metis Secure Solutions, nanoGriptech Inc., Netronome, PPG Industries Inc. Architectural Coatings, RE2 Inc. and Seegrid
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Life Sciences: Circadiance LLC, Complexa Inc., Foundation Radiology Group. invivodata Inc., McKesson Automation Inc., Net Health Systems Inc., Quantum OPS and Rinovum Women's Health
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 New Media: Brunner, Mizrahi Inc., Schell Games LLC, Songwhale, TrueFit and Z Brand Group
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Solution Provider: AEC Group Inc., Computer Aid Inc., Confluence, 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Automation Inc., Eaton Corp., Industrial Testing Laboratory Services LLC, Newton Consulting LLC, Regulatory & Quality Solutions LLC, SDLC Partners and Summa Technologies
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Start-up: Allpoint Systems, Branding Brand, Para-Coat Technologies Inc. (Vapor Armor), Rhiza, SnapRetail and Wombat Security Technologies Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Tech Titan: Ansaldo STS USA Inc., ANSYS Inc., Concurrent Technologies Corp. and TeleTracking Technologies, Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CEO of the Year: Audrey Dunning, Summa Technologies; William Lambert, MSA; Justin McElhattan, Industrial Scientific Corp.; Paul Musselman, Carnegie Speech; and Scott Pearson, Aquion Energy
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Deborah M. Todd: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dtodd@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  or 412-263-1652. /
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0August 28, 2012
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 JHF PUTS FOCUS ON PATIENTS; FOUNDATION MARKS ITS 25TH ANNIVERSARY
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 September 2, 2015 Wednesday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0LOCAL; Pg. B-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0479 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Steve Twedt, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 After taking on medication errors, payment reform and other nettlesome issues embedded in American health care, the Jewish Healthcare Foundation is zeroing in on patients and their role in maintaining their own health.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We own it. It's our health," said Karen Wolk Feinstein, president and CEO of the foundation, at its Downtown offices Tuesday during a celebration of the foundation's 25th anniversary. "It's so fundamental and yet it seems too simple."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 She said she was struck by the idea of keying on people taking responsibility for their own health, by watching what they eat and making sure they exercise and get enough sleep, after traveling internationally to countries whose health systems featured less complex and costly equipment and treatments but had healthier citizens.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Ms. Feinstein pointed to the importance of focusing on key life stages: habits and behaviors adopted by adolescents, such as smoking, that set them up for major health issues later. Or, at the far end of the age spectrum, making sure the elderly continue to exercise to slow the body's inevitable decline.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "It's a whole lot of things coming together."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Tuesday's event came a quarter century after the Jewish Healthcare Foundation of Pittsburgh was formed from the proceeds of the $75 million sale of Montefiore Hospital, considered the local Jewish hospital, to the University of Pittsburgh's health system.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In the years since, the foundation has given out $101 million in grants, and taken in $101 million in contributions and other revenue from outside sources, but still has $135 million in the bank, for which Ms. Feinstein credited the foundation's investment committee.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 But the nonprofit foundation is better known for its research, education, training and grant making, all with the goal of improving health care quality while containing health care costs.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In the process, it has created and supported nearly two dozen other entities, most notably the Pittsburgh Regional Health Initiative and the Health Careers Futures.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In keeping with its history of grant making, the foundation's board on Tuesday announced the awarding of six grants totaling $1.33 million: $500,000 for a multi-year initiative to promote healthy behaviors among adolescents; $390,000 for graduate health care fellowship and internship programs; and $150,000 for a project partnering with WQED that will include production of a one-hour documentary and look at advances in breast and ovarian cancer detection and treatment, with a focus on the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genetic mutations.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Other grants were $145,000 for a multimedia look back on the Jewish Healthcare Foundation's 25-year history; $80,000 to fund the JHF 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Fellowship program at the University of Pittsburgh to help students analyze and act on health data; and $68,000 for its "fair share contribution" to the Allegheny Conference on Community Development.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Steve Twedt: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 stwedt@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  or 412-263-1963.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0September 3, 2015
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 NO HEADLINE
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 April 4, 2001, Wednesday,
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS,
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a02153 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0NATALIE HILL
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PEOPLE ON THE MOVE Associations
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Pittsburgh Legal Administrators Association says its 2001-2002 board was elected: Donna C. Michael, president; Colin C. Smith, vice president/president elect; Raymond M. Pastura, treasurer; and Corinne E. McCartney, secretary. Advertising
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Pittsburgh office of Burson-Marsteller has added John Fries as manager in its advertising practice and Ryan Zepp as a client executive in its public affairs practice.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Fitting Creative hired Kelley J. Smith, traffic coordinator; Sharon A. Orienza, senior graphic designer; and Jody Stein, senior graphic designer. Architecture
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 L.D. Astorino Cos. has hired Shonna Worthy, senior CADD operator, fire and plumbing department; Arlene M. Martincic, administrative assistant, construction administration department; and Elizabeth L. Langston, project designer, residential interiors department. Banking, Financial
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 NorthSide Bank promoted Michelle Sagnimeni to community banking officer and branch manager of its Pittsburgh Cultural District office.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Parkvale Bank named Robert A. Stephens, senior vice president, lending; Joseph C DeFazio, vice president, assistant treasurer; Karen S. Grainy, assistant vice president, savings; Richard R. Sofilkanich, assistant vice president, commercial lending; and Christopher E. Conroy, assistant vice president, branch manager, Squirrel Hill. Clubs
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Frank Ancharski was named general manager of the Oxford Athletic Club in Wexford. Communications
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Krome Communications said Michael Berger and Daniel Goldberg were named public relations account executives.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Andrew C. Barrett and Casey Cowell were named to the board at BroadStreet Communications. Consulting
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Fred Liesong has joined InnerLink Strategic Solutions Inc. as sales manager. He will manage all sales activities in both its Pittsburgh and Wichita, Kan., offices. Design
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Bradley Brown Design Group promoted Alan Lopuszynski to senior account supervisor/writer. Education
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Margaret L. Signorella was named director of academic affairs at Penn State McKeesport. Environmental
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 STL Pittsburgh has added Christina Kovitch to its project management staff. Graphic Design
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 John Bradley Design Consultants Inc. has added to its staff: Keith Hancock, account manager; Amanda Montgomery, account manager; and John Scott Moore, electronic production specialist/designer. Health and Medicine
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Larry Crowell, chief executive of Heritage Valley Health System, is stepping down from his post at the end of May. Crowell is leaving health care to enroll in the Episcopal seminary in Ambridge. Insurance
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Stewart Title Guaranty Co. hired Laurence A. Neish as district manager and counsel for the Pittsburgh district office; and Linda Bressan as Western Pennsylvania agency representative. Internet
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Microsoft Greater Pennsylvania District announced new hires in its Pittsburgh office. Paul Pusateri, account executive; Joe Ratay, managing consultant; and Lisa Holt, administrator for its managing consulting group.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Bill Constantakis was named director of sales at eSpotMarket. Law
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Wayman Irvin & McAuley said John C. Bogut Jr. and Paul M. Mannix became members and Christine M. Seymour joined as an associate.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Lesley L. Coulson, Mark L. Medice and Michael A. Wahlster have joined Morgan Lewis & Bockius as associates.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Paul Whitehead has been named general counsel of the United Steelworkers of America. The Harvard Law School graduate directs a staff of 13 in-house lawyers and supervises the union's relationships with 40 law firms in North America. Whitehead succeeds James English, who was appointed secretary treasurer of the union's international executive board.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 John P. Sieminski was named partner at Burns White & Hickton.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Pittsburgh-based Eckert Seamans Cherin & Mellott has elected seven associates as members of the firm. William E. Adams, Kirk D. Houser, Sharon M. Loftus and Paul D. Steinman, who practice at the firm's Pittsburgh office; Peter F. Carr II and Heather Gold, who practice at the firm's Boston office; and Heather E. Rennie, who practices at the firm's Philadelphia office. Manufacturing
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Bayer Corp. appointed Walter L. Bullock vice president for paper colorants & chemical, Nafta region.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Kopp Glass Inc. said John M. Palladino joined as director of research and engineering and James G. Kroner joined as vice president of operations.BICO Inc. named Robert C. Egan chief operating officer; Peter DiGasbarro, vice president of marketing/business development and James E. Hall, vice president of sales. Marketing
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 William Perez has been promoted to vice president of account management at Winner Advertising. Media
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Randy Waugaman has been promoted to circulation director at the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Resorts
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Nemacolin Woodlands Resort & Spa promoted Nadine Egan to director of financial accounting and Charles Riddick to director of restaurants. Security Systems
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Vector Security said Tom Griffith and Ed Gallagher have joined as commercial sales representatives. Technology
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 True Commerce Inc. appointed Gerald R. O'Brien Jr. national sales manager.Millennia Group hired Anthony Pavlik as president/general manager of its wholly owned subsidiary Millennia Technology Inc. Transportation
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Chip Boone was named vice president of operations at Pitt Ohio. Elsewhere
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Eric M. Schwartz has been promoted to president of worldwide vegetables at Dole Food Co. He is the son of Ken and Marlene Schwartz of Mt. Lebanon. NEW BUSINESS
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Heavenly Ham, offering spiral-sliced, honey-spiced glazed hams and turkeys, opened a store at 4175 Washington Road at Waterdam Centre in McMurray.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Pier 1 Imports recently opened stores in Homestead at the Waterfront and at The Pointe, North Fayette shopping center.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Citizens National Bank announced the opening of a full-service Citizens Financial Center at 11361 Perry Highway, Pine.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 India Canteen, an India restaurant, recently opened at 6091 Steubenville Pike, McKees Rocks. Hours of operation 11:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; closed Mondays.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Sweet Leaf Herbals, a herbal store, opened in Shadyside at 230 Shady Ave. Hours are 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday. NEW OFFICES
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Automation Inc., Pittsburgh-based automation engineering, consulting and technical training firm, announced a new office opening in Kansas City, Mo. Christopher A. Gerace manages the Midwest sales operations.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Hackett Associates Inc., a Reading-based broker/dealer, opened a new office on Allegheny River Boulevard in Oakmont. The firm promoted Glenn Armocida to serve as general securities principal and business development manager for the region. CONTRACTS
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Los Angeles Police Department has awarded a $ 650,000 contract to Liekar Strategic Solutions Corp. to develop software needed by the department to monitor police behavior under a federal consent decree. The software is the first of eight projects the Pittsburgh-based business and technical consulting firm will work on with the department.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Los Angeles officials agreed to a consent decree with the U.S. Department of Justice that mandates police reforms and federal oversight to correct a pattern of civil rights violations, including beatings, robberies and framing innocent people.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Liekar is giving the department equipment and training officials to use a database of arrests, traffic stops, complaints and lawsuits to find problem police officers.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Trumbull Corp. has been awarded a $ 9.4 million contract with the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission in Somerset County. The contract includes the removal and replacement of three overhead bridge structures and the abandonment and complete removal of two additional overhead bridge structures.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The New Jersey Department of Transportation has selected Michael Baker Jr. Inc. to provide construction management services for a one-half mile, $ 80 million cut-and-cover tunnel carrying State Route 29 along the historic Trenton, N.J., waterfront.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Jack Horner Communications will assist with public relations services for the 2001 Mellon Mario Lemieux Celebrity Invitational golf tournament and community event June 7-10.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Burns & Scalo Roofing Co. was award the roofing contract for the new Hilton Gardens Inn at Southpointe in Canonsburg.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Carnegie Office Park announced five new tenants: Automated Protection Services, Associated Food Service, Single Source Mortgage, Associated Actuaries and psychologist Judith Bezdek.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Tripp Umbach Synergies has been retained by the Ministry of Health in Trinidad and Tobago to help improve health care for the island's 1.6 million people. The Pittsburgh-based health care consulting firm will work with nonprofit health agencies and hospitals to create a single advisory board to better address community needs, including preventive medicine programs.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 NetworkNEXT has been awarded a $ 210,000 advertising contract with eBags Inc. DIVIDENDS
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 National City Corp. declared a cash dividend of $ .285 per share on its common stock, payable May 1 to stockholders of record April 12.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Pittsburgh Financial Corp. declared a quarterly cash dividend of 9 cents per share, payable April 27 to stockholders of record April 13. BANKRUPTCIES
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Precision Data Inc., 102 Broadway Ave., Carnegie. Chapter 7: assets, not/available; liabilities, n/a.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Vickers Chrysler/Plymouth Inc., 733 Broad Ave., Belle Vernon. Chapter 11: assets, n/a; liabilities, n/a. AWARDS/HONORS
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Dave Thomas, founder of Wendy's Restaurant Franchise, will award Allegheny County Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) with one of six Adoption MVP Awards. CASA was chosen for this honor in light of its exemplary services to abused and neglected children in Allegheny County.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Honey Hill Publishing Inc. won four gold awards and one silver award for its free, regional parenting publications, which include Pittsburgh Parent, a monthly parenting magazine and Around & About Pittsburgh, an annual resource guide during the worldwide Editorial and Design Competition at the annual Parenting Publications of America convention held in Huntington Beach, Calif.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 UPMC Passavant said staff physician Janet D. Vlha has passed the November 2000 Recertification Final Examination in Geriatric Medicine sponsored by the American Board of Internal Medicine.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Ken Lippencott, certified financial planner with American Express, has been honored with the company's president's recognition award.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Ron Dunn Agency was awarded the Samuel P. Black Award from Erie Insurance Group.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 James R. Surman, a certified management consultant and president of Resource Productivity Institute Inc., was admitted to the American College of Healthcare Executives.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 TriLogic Corp. was recognized as Cisco Systems' No. 1 Tier 2 reseller in a region that covers Pennsylvania to Florida.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Jia Ji was named Youth Entrepreneur of the Year by the National Foundation for Teaching Entrepreneurship.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Damina Davila, an account executive at WTAE-TV, is the recipient of the Hearst Argyle Television Eagle Award for 2000.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Sylvia, Norm and Barbara Belle, owners of the Fastsigns store on Banksville Road, were recognized with a regional sales award by Fastsigns International Inc. for having the highest gross sales figures of all Fastsigns stores in the Northeastern United States for 2000.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Dr. Catherine D. De Angelis, editor of The Journal of the American Medical Association, has been named the 39th recipient of the prestigious Marion Spencer Fay Award presented by the National Board for Women in Medicine.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Warren Champ along with 29 other employees from Lockheed-Martin will be presented with the company's Information System Galaxy award for dedication, teamwork and ethical conduct. BIG BUSINESSES
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The following Pittsburgh companies made the annual Fortune 500 list: USX, No. 39; Alcoa, No. 77; H.J. Heinz, No. 199; PPG Industries, No. 220; PNC Financial Services Group, No. 242; Mellon Bank, No. 299; and Wesco International, No. 431. MAKING A DIFFERENCE
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mellon Financial Corp. was recognized as the No. 1 contributor to the United Way of Southwestern Pennsylvania's 2000 campaign with total contributions of $ 1.93 million. Of that amount, $ 1.34 million came from employee gifts, while $ 588,000 came from the corporation.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Employees of the Kennametal Inc. world headquarters in Latrobe and the Chestnut Ridge and Kingston plants, under the Kennametal Employees Association, have donated a truckload of food, household products and cash donations totaling $ 225 to the Westmoreland County Food Bank in time for the Easter holiday. Employees have conducted food drives for the food bank for several yeas. This year, approximately 820 pounds of food was collected.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 DATELINE PITTSBURGH: A LOOK AT WHO'S WHO AND WHAT'S WHAT
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Dateline Pittsburgh appears every Wednesday. To propose an item and submit photos, send information to Natalie Hill, Dateline Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 34 Blvd. of the Allies, Pittsburgh 15222, or fax to 412-263-0908.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Photos may be sent via e-mail in JPEG, 170 DPI format to 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 photos@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone . Photo size should be an 8- by 10-inch or 4- by 5-inch head shot. Photos must be received by Friday before publication.  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO (20), PHOTO: Fries; PHOTO: Sagnimeni; PHOTO: Berger; PHOTO: Lopuszynski; PHOTO: Ratay; PHOTO: Holt; PHOTO: Pusateri; PHOTO: Whitehead; PHOTO: Coulson; PHOTO: Medice; PHOTO: Wahlster; PHOTO: Mannix; PHOTO: Bogut; PHOTO: Seymour; PHOTO: Bullock; PHOTO: Palladino; PHOTO: Kroner; PHOTO: Riddick; PHOTO: Egan; PHOTO: O'Brien
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0April 5, 2001
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 NO HEADLINE
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 February 14, 2001, Wednesday,
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS,; PEOPLE ON THE MOVE
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0731 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0NATALIE HILL
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Accounting
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Arthur Andersen announces the promotion of Timothy J. Baird, Crystal Bey, Shawn C. Fabry, Timothy R. Grelling and Carolyn D. Hubler to seniors in the audit practice of the Pittsburgh office.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Jo Ann Tovarnak, Julia J. Hanna and Scott M. Schmidt have joined Alpern, Rosenthal & Co.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Advertising
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Marc/USA's Pittsburgh office has expanded its IT team with the addition of Michelle Matta, Travis Pile and Michael Hennigan.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Fitting Creative named Kevin Kennedy creative director.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Architectural
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Larson Design Group, Inc. appointed Stefanie J. Hoffman engineer, structural department.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Banking, Financial
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Northside Bank promoted Charlene Thunell to commercial loan officer; Kathleen Ayres, assistant vice president; Theresa Downing, community banking officer and branch manager of the bank's Duncan Manor office. Andrew Mittelstaedt has joined to manage the bank's new community office in Franklin Park, scheduled to open this spring.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Cheryl Campbell, John Daw and Angel Marschik have joined Promistar Bank as vice presidents, commercial bank officers.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Construction
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Charles B. Porter and Tony E. Herwald have joined P.J. Dick Inc. as project managers.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Hotels
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Interstate Hotels Corp. promoted four executives to oversee its affiliate, Crossroads Hospitality Co. Ted Knighton, senior vice president; Chris Mannino, vice president of operations; Jan Carpineto, vice president of operations; and Brad Hoover, vice president and controller.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Thomas Martini has been named director of hotel sales and marketing for the Westin Convention Center Pittsburgh (formerly the Doubletree).
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Internet
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 iGate Capital Corp. appointed Jonathan D. Bonime, managing director-general counsel and secretary.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Law
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Earon R. Williams has been named an associate at Dickie McCamey & Chilcote.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Meyer, Unkovic & Scott has elected Patricia L. Dodge, Robert Mauro and Dennis Unkovic to the firm's management committee for the 2001-02 term.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 David L. Pollack has been named a shareholder at Gefsky & Lehman.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Carol L. Hesz and Jennifer L. McPeak have joined Burns White & Hickton as associates at the firm's Pittsburgh office.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Cohen & Grigsby said Meryl Macklin was available to serve as a mediator or as settlement counsel in conjunction with trial counsel in complex matters.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Tucker Arensberg said Walter Enick has joined as a shareholder and Juliet Abel and Irving Firman have joined as associate attorneys.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Michael J. Dempster, Ralph A. Finizio, Bradley J. Franc, Gregory A. Harbaugh and John D. Houston II were elected to the 2001 Executive Committee at Houston Harbaugh.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Pittsburgh Chapter of the Legal Marketing Association elected its 2001 board of directors: president, Jeanne M. Hammerstrom; president-elect, Mary C. Hendrix; secretary, Leah E. Byers; treasurer, Allysn G. Hurley; member-at-large, Beth O. McClaine; and member-at-large, Sandy Rhodes Svoboda.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Manufacturing
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Sony Electronics named James Stansberry director of the company's new semiconductor design center.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PPG Industries named two regional senior account managers for PPG PROSTARS: Douglas J. Heyliger and John Sgro.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 LTV Copperweld promoted David T. Motyll to director, product and business development, for its U.S. Structural Tubing Group; David L. Meranto general manager, marketing and sales, mechanical group; and Glenn G. Dumoulin to mechanical product development of three Brampton, Ontario, area plants of its tubular products group.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Nonprofit
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Pittsburgh Foundation said Mary Frances Dean joined the organization as planned giving officer.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Named to the board at Pittsburgh Cares were Neil Alexander, vice president of Operations for Hefren-Tillotson Inc; Valerie Creedon, quality improvment/community outreach coordinator, diversified services, for UPMC; Rocco D'Angelo, manager for Urish Oppeck & Co.; and Greg Scott, project manager/associate partner, Nichols & Slagle Engineering Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS) appointed Michael A. Trick, president, Carnegie Bosch Institute for Applied Studies in International Management, Carnegie Mellon University, to its board.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 ACQUISITIONS
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Automation Inc. has acquired LCISoft.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Widmer Engineering Inc. acquired R.B. Shannon & Associates Inc. as of Dec. 28.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 BANKRUPTCIES
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 David Anzur d/b/a Sharpshooter Dek Hockey d/b/a/ Team 68, 4815 William Penn Highway, Murrysville. Chapter 7: assets, n/a; liabilities, n/a.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 DATELINE PITTSBURGH A LOOK AT WHO'S WHO AND WHAT'S WHAT
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO 16, Photo: (no caption)
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0February 14, 2001
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 No Headline In Original
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 February 26, 2003 Wednesday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS,; DATELINE PITTSBURGH
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a02011 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0NATALIE HILL
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PEOPLE ON THE MOVE
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Advertising
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Blattner Brunner said Michael Brunner, president, added the title of chairman since founder Joe Blattner became chairman emeritus Jan. 1; Jeff Burkel joined as chief financial officer and Scott Morgan was promoted to executive vice president and chief integration officer.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Architecture
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Larson Design Group Inc. said Suzanne R. Hoehne joined as an environmental specialist.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Associations/ Organizations
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  John R. Gotaskie Jr., an associate with DKW Law Group, was re-elected president of the Georgetown Alumni Club of Pittsburgh after serving a two-year term.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  The Woodland Foundation elected officers and members to its board of trustees for 2003. Chairman, Donald H. Reigel, M.D.; president, Peter W. Clakeley; vice presidents, Jennifer Kelly and Aaron Savin; treasurer, Charles Gray; secretary, Lauren O. Troutman; and member, Cathleen Walker.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Banking, Finance
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  AXA Advisors hired Gina Gianni, Kenneth Harris and Steven Stuckert.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Citizens Bank named Thomas R. Szmanda senior vice president and director, retail banking, of its Pittsburgh Traditional Marketplace.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Broadcasting
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Clear Channel Radio named Milana Miljenovic national sales manager.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Contractor, Construction
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Domenic Ricciuti Jr. joined the estimating department at Massaro Co.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Burns & Scalo Roofing Co. promoted Philip A. Reece to manager of the commercial sheet metal division.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Communications
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Krome Communications promoted Kelly Bilger to account executive and hired Rege Turocy, graphic designer/production artist, and Nicole Zeller, account coordinator.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  PMI hired Lara Eskievich as a marketing executive.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  FSC Marketing Communications promoted Rob Aho to account supervisor.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Education
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Carnegie Mellon's College of Fine Arts hired Jenny Strayer as gallery director of the Regina Gouger Miller Gallery.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Health and Medicine
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Alle-Kiski Medical Center appointed Robert A. Butler director of special services; Robert A. Saunders, director, cardiovascular services; Janet Lang, director, risk management; and Ann McCutcheon, unit manager, 2D, telemetry unit.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Louis D. Pietragallo, M.D., joined the board of Family Hospice and Palliative Care. She has a private practice in Hematology/Oncology at the UPMC Cancer Centers in Upper St. Clair.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Laboratories
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Microbac Laboratories Inc. named Edward J. Hughes chief financial officer.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Law
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Charles R. Reis has been elected a shareholder at Sherrard German & Kelly.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Babst Calland Clements & Zomnir named Joseph S. Koscinski a shareholder.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  William M. Hassan has been elected a shareholder at Klett Rooney Lieber & Schorling.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Manufacturing
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Mine Safety Appliances Co. promoted Mark Dilliplaine to director of marketing, sales and business development, instrument division.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Johnstown America Corp. appointed J. Bard McLean Inc. to represent Johnstown America's railcar parts and rebuild business in the Eastern United States. J. Bard McLean's president, Derek McLean, will be responsible for customers in the Northeast, while his brother, Bard McLean Jr., will cover the Southeast.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Mark J. Orcutt, president, PPG Auto Glass, was appointed vice president of flat glass for PPG Industries, effective March 1. He succeeds Barry J. McGee, who was appointed vice president of PPG's automotive original equipment glass business.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Media
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette named Diana Block director of operations. In her newly created position she will oversee all areas of manufacturing and systems technology.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Nonprofit
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Coordinated Care Network named Katherine Homrok medical director.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Michael T. McCabe has been appointed director of food services and James A. Bereksazi has been named executive chef, retirement living area, at Masonic Village at Sewickley.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Stacie Chandler joined Mon Valley Initiative as communications coordinator.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  The Horticultural Society of Western Pennsylvania appointed Lindsay Bond Totten president.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Professional Services
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  McKeesport Team PA CareerLink hired Edward Henry as micro-enterprise specialist.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Public Relations
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  McMahon & Cardillo Communication hired Lisa Buonarosa as account supervisor.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Real Estate/Investment Management
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Continental Building System hired Kevin Hughes as director of preconstruction services, Pittsburgh office.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Jones Lang LaSalle promoted Ed Cannon to managing director, Corporate Property Services, and Dan Adamski to vice president, Tenant Representation.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Resorts
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Nemacolin Woodlands Resort & Spa promoted Steven Spooner to food and beverage director; Tim Tatgenhorst, assistant director, food and beverage; Susan McCarthy, director, public relations; Laura Manges, director, marketing; and Thomas Goodrich, director, retail for Woodlands World.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Restaurants
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Chuck Greenawalt has been promoted to general manager of Bob Evans Restaurant in Monroeville.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Transportation/Logistics
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Integres Global Corp. has named Thomas J. Leonard manager of Corp Clients for Western Pennsylvania.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  BUSINESS NOTES
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Commonwealth Capital Group completed its second investment, acquiring Greenville-based Hodge Foundry from Metso minerals Industries Inc., the rock and minerals processing business of Finland-based industrial conglomerate Metso Corp.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Alcoa Home Exteriors Inc. has reached an agreement to acquire Owens Cornings' vinyl production facility in Atlanta.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Bynums Advertising Service launched a new Web site, 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 www.bynums.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone . 
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  MAYA Viz said it had launched a supply chain business line. John Amos was hired as vice president, sales, supply chain.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  St. Moritz Labor Services Inc., a temporary staffing company that specializes in manual labor, have opened a new division, St. Moritz Hospitality Services.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  NEW BUSINESS/NEW OFFICES
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Carnegie Community Development Corp. announced the grand reopening of Renaissance Gallery located at Skibo Center, 428 Washington Ave., Carnegie.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Eckerd Corp. announced the grand reopening of its store at 568 Caste Village.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Multiscope Inc. moved to 187 36th St., Strip District. Call 412-456-1050.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Groundwater & Environmental Services Inc. opened its 23rd office in Altoona.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Legal Network opened an office in Cleveland, at the Superior Building, 815 Superior Ave., Suite 1300, Cleveland 44114.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Fidelity Bank will open its 13th branch office, at 1339 Freedom Road, Cranberry. Fidelity anticipates opening the branch in early April.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  H&R Block opened an office at Wexford Plaza, 10628 Perry Highway, Wexford.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Avellino, a privately held data integration solutions vendor, has opened an office in Pittsburgh.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  CONTRACTS
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Dynamic Building Corp. began construction on an interior renovation project for Passavant Retirement Community. The architect is Reese, Lower, Patrick & Scott Architects.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  American Bridge Co. has been awarded a prime contract valued at $49.2 million by the Kentucky Department of Transportation for a new bridge over Cumberland Lake in eastern Kentucky.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Woodings Industrial Corp. has been awarded a contract to produce new large bell and hopper assemblies for "B" and "C" blast furnaces at Rouge Steel in Detroit.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Don's Glass & Mirror Inc. has been awarded the glass and glazing contracts for North Strabane Intermediate School with Rycon Construction Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Carl Walker Construction received a design-build contract with the Parkersburg Parking Authority to build an intermodal parking garage in downtown Parkersburg, W.Va.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Ohio University selected the team of WTW Architects of Pittsburgh and Moody Nolan Ltd. Inc. of Columbus, Ohio, to design a 173,000-square-foot University Center for its Athens campus.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  UEC Technologies signed a license agreement to provide its low moisture quenching (LO-MO) technology to Wuhan Iron & Steel Corp. of China.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Underground Solution Inc. entered into a Duraliner Certified Contractor agreement with George W. Kennedy Construction Co. Inc. for the Chicago Metropolitan Area, which includes portions of Northern Illinois, southeastern Wisconsin, northwestern Indiana and southwestern Michigan.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Management Science Associates Inc. has signed an agreement with the Snack Food Association naming MSA its sole source of vending data.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Landau Building Co. was awarded a general construction from Armstrong County Memorial Hospital for the renovation of its radiology and angiography suites.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  PWCampbell has been awarded the design/build contract by Erie School Employees Federal Credit Union. The new branch facility will be located in Millcreek Township, and is projected to be completed in this year's fourth quarter.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Dynamic Manufacturing, a contract manufacturer and electronics engineering firm, has begun supplying Berner International with digital microprocessor-based speed and temperature controllers.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  CSX Transportation has awarded a contract to Union Switch & Signal for the requirements, design, implementation, integration and installation of its Next Generation Dispatch system for the Kenneth C. Dufford Transportation Center in Jacksonville, Fla. The program will eventually replace the current CSX dispatching system installed by US&S in 1988.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Dawar Technologies has selected CommuniTech to provide targeted public relations services to promote the company's leading-edge products and services, and expand Dawar's presence within its key market sectors.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  VAIS do Brazil, a subsidiary of VOEST-ALPINE INDUSTRIEANLAGENBAU (VAI), received an exclusive five-year full-service contract from CSN for the maintenance of all three continuous casters at the Volta Redonda location.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Plus Consulting, an IT strategy and services consulting firm, won a contract to implement SalesLogix (CRM) technology for 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Automation.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Dick Corp. has been awarded a $17.7 million contract by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation for roadway work on state Route 22 east of Lewistown. The project is slated for completion in September 2005.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  DIVIDENDS
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Commercial National Financial Corp. declared a quarterly dividend of 25 cents per share, payable March 7 to shareholders of record this Friday.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Wabtec Corp. declared a quarterly dividend of 1 cent a share, payable March 14 to holders of record this Friday.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Emclaire Financial Corp. declared a quarterly cash dividend of 21 cents per share, payable March 20 to shareholders of record next Monday.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  BANKRUPTCIES
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Two Craigs Inc., a corporation, 727 Fifth Ave., New Kensington. Chapter 7: assets, n/a; liabilities, n/a.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Hazport Transportation LLC., 2021 West State St., New Castle. Chapter 11: assets, n/a; liabilities, n/a.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  GRANTS/LOANS
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Spectrum Family Network Foundation received a $95,000 two-year grant from the William Hodge Burch-field Fund, Thomas Howell Burchfield Fund and the Wilson A. Shaw Memorial Fund of the Pittsburgh Foundation.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Middle Allegheny Streams Alliance Inc.  recently received a $10,000 Growing Greener Grant from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. The grant is being used to fund the start-up activities of this new nonprofit watershed organization, which is based in Venango County. MASA conducts watershed assessment and restoration activities on streams along the Allegheny River, within northwestern Pennsylvania.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Pittsburgh and Youth Enrichment Services each received $50,000 grants from Pittsburgh Social Venture Partners.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  The Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center has received an award of $1.3 million from the National Institutes of Health to advance research in biology and medicine. This award, from NIH's National Center for Research Resources, will provide for computational resources to support the work of several world-leading biomedical research teams. Through the NIH grant, PSC will acquire, install and operate a "shared-memory" computing system with advanced processor technologies, a very large memory capacity and associated storage.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Carnegie Mellon University's STUDIO for Creative Inquiry's 3 Rivers 2nd Nature Project has received a $75,000 grant from The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  PNC Foundation awarded a $5,000 grant in support of the "Bid Sheet," Pittsburgh's only local publication of bid and contract notifications designed and specifically targeted for small business -- in particular, to minority- and women-owned business owners from majority and privately owned companies.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: (No caption for any)
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0February 26, 2003
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 No Headline In Original
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 June 27, 1999, Sunday,
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 TWO STAR EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS,; FOR THE RECORD
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a01078 words
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 People on the Move PNC Capital Markets, Inc. announced the appointment of Richard N. Johannes to director in high yield research. William W. Wells was named vice president of sales and marketing of Nomos Corp. Jay E. Grassel has been appointed vice president of engineering at 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Automation Inc. and was made a shareholder in the company. William Staniszewski has joined Keane Inc. as employee development manager of the Pittsburgh branch. Andrew Sliben is director of revenue management at the Sheraton Hotel Station Square.  Kimberly Shields has been named account executive at Hill Flaherty Sabol Marketing Communications. Stuart A. Williams has joined the law firm of Doepken Keevican & Weiss. Reed Smith Shaw & McClay announced that Jeffrey G. Aromatorio of the business and finance department and Gary L. Kaplan of the litigation department have been made partners. Separately, Wayne W. Ringeisen has joined the firm. Fourteen Pittsburgh lawyers have been elected chairs of Pennsylvania Bar Association committees. They are: Mary K. Austin, Vicki L. Beatty, Theodore N. Black, Aims C. Coney, Joy Flowers Conti, Carl G. Cooper, Thomas L. Cooper, Laura E. Ellsworth, Peggy L. Ferber, Kenneth J. Horoho Jr., Nancy A. Hubley, Marvin S. Lieber, W. Edward Sell and Kathryn L. Simpson. Joe Barry was promoted to vice president of Tal Inc. Herbert Higginbotham was named manager of several areas under the civil division of Michael Baker Corp. Sandra McLaughlin, a senior vice president at Mellon Bank Corp., joined the board of trustees of the Western Pennsylvania School for Blind Children.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 William E. Wengerd has joined the staff of Senate Engineering Co. Louis Andreano has been named Prograph's controller and vice president of finance. Cheri D. Gmiter, a senior vice president at Hallmark/Tassone Inc., was appointed to a two-year term as president of the Pittsburgh Advertising Club. William R. Caroselli of Caroselli Spagnolli & Beachler has become a fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers. Charles Avalli has joined the law firm of Goldberg, Gruener, Gentile, Horoho & Avalli as partner and fifth shareholder. Separately, Mark K. Roberts joined the firm as an associate. The Pittsburgh Life Underwriters Association announced its slate of directors. Bruce R. Haldeman; president; David C. Evans; president-elect; Ronald A. Gredlein; vice president; Angelo E. Cilia; treasurer; and Thomas F. Defilippi, past president. Drew Patrick has been named manager of marketing communications at Cellomics. Contracts Boise Locomotive Co., the Idaho-based subsidiary of MotivePower Industries Inc., received a $ 21 million contract to overhaul 25 commuter locomotives for the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority. Separately, MotivePower Industries received $ 7 million worth of orders for traction motors and locomotive parts from Egyptian National Railways. The transportation planning group of Michael Baker Corp. has won a total of 19 new projects in nine states valued at more than $ 20 million in 1999. Precise Technology Inc. has invested in a new multimillion-dollar facility in Massachusetts to produce packaging for The Gillette Co.'s new razor. The IT Group, Inc. said that Public Service Electric and Gas Co. has awarded it a $ 10 million contract for environmental remediation in New Jersey. WTW Architects and Gensler Architects of Denver have been selected to design a $ 23 million renovation of and addition to the University of Colorado's University Medical Center in Boulder. A consortium including ALSTOM Drives and Controls and a mill builder, Bliss, has completed the first phase of a $ 12 million contract to modernize a mill in Farrell, Mercer County. SAIC Energy Systems Group was awarded a $ 100 million contract from the Department of Energy for federal Energy Technology Center facilities in Morgantown, W.Va., and Pittsburgh. Awards Hallmark/Tassone Inc. won two Addy awards on behalf of Sony Technology and Kings Family Restaurants. Rotary Club of Western Pennsylvania. Bankruptcies Dycoal Inc., 201 E. Southpointe Ave., Suite 490, Santa Ana, CA 92707; Three Rivers Marine & Rail Terminals LP, 2200 Springfield Pike, Connellsville 15425. Chapter 11: assets n/a; liabilities n/a. Keith S. Hart, 100 Brooklane, Valencia 16059. Chapter 7: assets n/a; liabilities n/a. George A. & Mary Colaizzi, 3457 Burnett Drive, Murrysville 15668. Chapter 7: assets $ 143,962; liabilities $ 249,741.56. Anna Mary Karphszka d/b/a Creative Photography, 98 Estella Ave., Pittsburgh 15211. Chapter 7: assets $ 28,950; liabilities $ 71,301.85. Mark L. Jordan , Mark Jordan Used Cars, Mark Jordan Auto Sales, 2951 Jacks Run Road, White Oak 15131. Chapter 7: assets $ 478,280; liabilities $ 678,127.05 East Coast Motorcars Inc., 846 Beaver Grade Road, Coraopolis 15108; 650 Sanderson Drive, Campbell, OH 44405. Chapter 7: assets n/a; liabilities n/a. Magic Method Inc., 2811 Brownsville Road, Pittsburgh 15227. Chapter 11: assets $ 6,000; liabilities $ 30,000. Tom Alan Ghezzi d/b/a Johnstown Siding Co., 137 Glenn St., Johnstown 15906. Chapter 7: assets $ 10,295; liabilities $ 30,062.54. Durasteel Abrasive Co., 219 Bridgeport St., P.O. Box 1251, Mount Pleasant 15666. Chapter 7: assets n/a; liabilities n/a. Carl A. Lichvarcik d/b/a Sirius Technology Group f/d/b/a Lichvarcik Enterprises, 4452 Mount Royal Blvd., Allison Park 15101. Chapter 11: assets $ 212,429.43; liabilities $ 237,629 Daniel J. & Elizabeth B. Fajt, 578 Brushton Ave., Greensburg 15601. Chapter 7: assets $ 161,455; liabilities 546,796.69. Dividends First Bell Bancorp Inc. declared a regular quarterly dividend of 10 cents a share, payable July 16 to shareholders of record June 30. Tuscarora Inc. declared a regular semi-annual dividend of 12 cents a share, payable July 2 to shareholders of record June 22. Parkvale Financial Corp. declared a regular quarterly dividend of 15 cents a share, payable July 28 to stockholders of record June 30. Harsco Corp. declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of 22 1/ 2 cents per share, payable Aug. 13 to shareholders of record July 15. Mine Safety Appliances Co. declared a quarterly dividend of 34 cents a share, payable Sept. 10 to shareholders of record Aug. 13. Eureka Bank declared a quarterly dividend of 7 1/ 2 cents a share, payable about July 31 to shareholders of record July 15. Pittsburgh Home Financial Corp. declared a quarterly cash dividend of 7 cents per share, payable July 23 to stockholders of record July 9.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0June 30, 1999
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 PET FACTOR IN PLAY IN MAYOR'S RACE?
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 January 24, 2013 Thursday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0LOCAL; Pg. A-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0524 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Kaitlynn Riely, The Pittsburgh Press
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Cats versus dogs. Ravenstahl versus Peduto. One debate is timeless, the other is timely.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 But are they related?
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 An East Liberty polling company thinks they could be.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 According to CivicScience, dog people are more likely to support city Councilman Bill Peduto in the upcoming Pittsburgh Democratic mayoral primary, while cat people are more likely to support current Mayor Luke Ravenstahl. The data compares only two candidates, since it was collected from Dec. 30 through Jan. 16, the day city Controller Michael Lamb entered the race.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The polling information, released by CivicScience in a blog post Sunday, has prompted more chuckles than pandering pet purchases by the candidates' campaigns.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "I guess that's why I have two cats," said Aletheia Henry, Mr. Ravenstahl's campaign manager.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The poll also suggests that people who eat at the restaurant Mad Mex are more likely to support Mr. Ravenstahl, and that people who prefer Casbah, Soba, Umi and Kaya favor Mr. Peduto. And it states that avid Steelers and Pirates fans are more likely to support Mr. Peduto, while Penguins fans are more likely to support Mr. Ravenstahl.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Right now, we're just kind of having fun with it, since there's a paucity of polling for local races," said Ross McGowan, director of 
\f0\i\b \ul data science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  for the 15-person CivicScience firm. "It's something that we can do that others can't. We're collecting this data anyway, so we may as well write about it."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CivicScience collects its information by placing three-question surveys on hundreds of websites (including the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, which has a commercial relationship with CivicScience) and tracking individual respondents by their browser cookies and IP addresses to find statistically significant patterns, such as that people who prefer Mr. Ravenstahl for mayor in one survey prefer cats in another survey. The mayoral poll included 1,651 respondents who self-reported as registered Democrats living in Pittsburgh.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Internet polling, a much newer method than the standard telephone polling used by most political pollsters, should be considered cautiously, said Paul J. Lavrakas, president of the American Association for Public Opinion Research, based in Deerfield, Ill.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "It's too new a science for anyone to know with good enough confidence when it's accurate or when it's going to be accurate," he said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CivicScience mostly conducts and analyzes consumer polls, not political ones, but Mr. McGowan said he believes the company's data provides a good profile of respondents, and he cited the 18-point lead the company predicted for Rich Fitzgerald shortly before the November 2011 election for Allegheny County executive. (Mr. Fitzgerald won the race by 24 points.)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 As the race for mayor continues, Mr. McGowan said the company will continue to release polling data, with future results including Mr. Lamb's entry into the race.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 For now, though, with his feline figures trailing, Mr. Peduto joked that his campaign was planning "a full-out blitz" on the cat people, with ads in Cat Fancy magazine.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We intend to keep it close, and then win it on Election Day, when we can unite both the dog and cat people together," he said.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Kaitlynn Riely: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 kriely@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  or 412-263-1707. /
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0January 26, 2013
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 PUSHING ADS TO PHONES NO SURE DEAL; PITT RESEARCH FINDS IT WORKS FOR SOME BUSINESSES, NOT OTHERS
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 August 30, 2015 Sunday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 FIVE STAR EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; Pg. G-1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0750 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0Deborah M. Todd, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Businesses hoping to reel in new customers with location-based social media discounts are discovering it takes more than casting a line for customers to bite.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Sending digital coupons to any consumer within a 100-foot radius doesn't necessarily lead to more sales or foot traffic, according to a University of Pittsburgh study.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The study, conducted by Pitt's School of Information Sciences and the New Jersey-based Stevens Institute of Technology concludes that location-based advertising through social media sites such as Foursquare and Facebook can reap benefits for businesses in the right neighborhoods - if they offer those deals at the right time - but many businesses have to work harder to make promotions successful.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Foursquare, which launched in 2009, has grown to more than 50 million users taking advantage of check-in services, and nearly 2 million businesses have signed on to the app to gain access to those users. Like Foursquare, the location based advertising industry itself is expected to surge from a $1.66 billion global market in 2013 to a projected $14.8 billion by 2018, according to Swedish analyst firm Berg Insight.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 An analysis of data collected from 14 million venues over seven months through Foursquare - a social media site where users "check in" to show exact locations to friends and other users - revealed a 50-50 split between the number of businesses that saw an increase in check-ins during the time deals were offered and those that saw no increase.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Further study showed the three most important elements to the successful deals campaigns were the particular venue's existing popularity (based on total Foursquare check-ins), the details of the deals being offered, and the population density surrounding the business.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In other words, a popular Forbes Avenue eatery sending out a back-to-school deal during Pitt's freshman rush will likely see more check-ins than a lesser-known business across town offering a similar discount.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Even if a business falls short in each category, it's no reason to abandon location-based deals altogether.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "We are not saying that special deals are not useful to business owners, quite the contrary," said Konstantinos Pelechrinis, lead researcher and assistant professor at Pitt's School of Information Sciences in a news release. "What we are saying is that business owners should be well-versed on the best means for using social media and they should have realistic expectations on how social media can help their individual ventures grow."
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Pelechrinis said small business owners in less populated areas should make efforts to combine location-based deals with promotions made offline to raise awareness of the campaign and the store itself. He added that companies should take advantage of location-based social media advertising that pushes notifications to smartphones to alert customers when they're approaching businesses offering deals.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Lucas Evans, founder of East Liberty-based location technology marketing company Nectr, said his company takes a hyper-targeted approach by sending customized notifications to customers who opt-in to the service only when they are actually inside the store offering the deal.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 He said the old model of sending coupons to anyone with a smartphone and an active app dilutes the relevance of the message.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "Just having a deal to 'check-in' and receive a free side of fries is not going to resonate or be a significant factor in driving today's on-the-go consumer to your restaurant," Mr. Evans said. "But if I am on Google and searching for places to eat near me and I see the same offer for a restaurant that is in my immediate vicinity, then I am much more likely to take advantage of it.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 "So it's important to take into consideration the consumers' state of mind, meaning when, where and how your content is being delivered," he said.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mr. Pelechrinis, who is also head of Pitt's Network 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Lab, said the study results are part of an ongoing effort to examine issues impacting small businesses and the local economy. In coming months, he and his team will examine how street festivals and fairs impact local small businesses and how road closures due to construction affect sales.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The study was presented at the International Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence Conference on Web and Social Media in Oxford, England. Pitt doctoral candidate Ke Zhang and Theodoros Lappas, assistant professor in the Stevens Institute of Technology's School of Business, were coauthors.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Deborah M. Todd: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dtodd@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  or 412-263-1652. Twitter: @deborahtodd.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Getty Images/iStockphoto: No caption\\
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0September 1, 2015
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 REVVING IT UP;
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8232 
\f0\i\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 SURVEYS SHOW REGION'S COMPANIES ARE ENJOYING LIFE IN THE FAST LANE
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 October 14, 1999, Thursday,
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS,
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0779 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0STEVE MASSEY, POST-GAZETTE ASSOCIATE EDITOR
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 You know we've entered a new era in the region's economy when the fastest growing companies have names like APAR, RAPIDIGM, intelitran and Greyfox.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 They don't exactly roll off the tongue or carry the same heft as U.S. Steel, Westinghouse or even Alcoa, do they? Well, get used to it.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 As Pittsburgh plays catch-up with the rest of the country, it's these smaller, young technology-oriented companies that are going to be doing a lot of the growing and hiring and leading these days.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 That's not to downplay the role and importance of our big institutions, but the truth is, for many old-timers, the primary focus in recent years has been on survival. Some haven't made it, and others are significantly leaner. So it is that the region, as much from necessity as desire, must look elsewhere for job growth.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 To encourage the companies making it happen, the Pittsburgh Technology Council for the past three years has scoured southwestern Pennsylvania for hidden technology stars. Last night, the trade organization feted its latest batch, the Pittsburgh Technology 50 - the 50 fastest-growing high tech concerns, based on 1998 sales growth.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 It just so happens that the Pittsburgh Technology 50 came out the same day that Inc. magazine unveiled its list of the nation's 500 fastest-growing private companies. The region was well represented by eight companies, led by Efficient Machine Tool Sales, a 5-year-old producer and distributor of equipment in Bridgeville that was a lucky 13th on the Inc. 500 list (see below).
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 What does it all mean? That there are eight reasons by Inc.'s count, and 50 by the Pittsburgh Technology Council's measure, to be hopeful.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The fastest of the 50 fastest-growing technology companies in Western Pennsylvania:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 $ 1 million-to-$ 5 millionannual revenue:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Parallel Technologies Corp.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Sewickley
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Founded: 1994
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Employees: 20
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Revenue growth: 37,400%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CEO: Daniel G. Grant
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 What it does: Provide access to one of the largest state-of-the-art data centers in the U.S., supported with systems integration services and private worldwide networks.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Web site: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 www.2lines.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 $ 5 million-to-$ 10 millionannual revenue:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Greyfox Systems Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Carnegie
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Founded: 1995
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Employees: 48
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Revenue growth: 1,974%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CEO: Michael T. Jennison
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 What it does: Designs, manufactures and installs advanced home wiring systems in the new construction market.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Web site: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 www.greyfox.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 $ 10 million-to-$ 25 million annual revenue:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 APAR Infotech Corp.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Upper St. Clair
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Founded: 1996
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Employees: 425
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Revenue growth: 2,472%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CEO: Rajeev Srivastava
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 What it does: Provides contract software services and integrated systems solutions to clients worldwide.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Web site: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 www.apar.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 $ 25 million-to-$ 100 million annual revenue
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Computer Enterprises Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Green Tree
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Founded: 1992
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Employees: 330
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Revenue growth: 306%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 What it does: As a project management and software consulting company, provides training in e-commerce, client-server and mainframe technologies to industries and government.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Web site: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 www.ceiamerica.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 $ 100 million+annual revenue
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 RAPIDIGM Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Robinson
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Founded: 1968
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Employees: 1,764
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Revenue growth: 193%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 What it does: Formerly known as ComputerPeople, provides project management, information technology consulting, custom programming and systems design services.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Web site: 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 www.rapidigm.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  Top 50 fastest-growing technology companies:
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 $ 1 million-to-$ 5 million % change
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Parallel Technologies Corp. 37,400%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Cerebellum Software 7,281%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Signature Solutions Inc. 3,900%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Pyramid Consulting Group Inc. 1,000%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Delta Systems Design Inc. 866%
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Automation Inc. 852%
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 paircq Networks Inc.  567%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SATCOM Systems Inc./SATCOM Digital Networks 525%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Comtel Communications 519%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Demegen Inc. 406%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 $ 5 million-to-$ 10 million % change
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Greyfox Systems Inc. 1,974%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 FreeMarkets Inc. 1,808%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Integral Strategies Inc. 1,109%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Stargate Industries Inc. 804%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CLARITECH Corp. 760%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Vocollect Inc. 576%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Information Systems Services Inc. 350%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 NOMOS Corp. 177%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 U.S. Tool & Die Inc. 175%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 RoData Inc. 160%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 $ 10 million-to-$ 25 million % change
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 APAR Infotech Corp. 2,472%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Allin Corp. 1,278%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SEEC Inc. 323%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 ServiceWare Inc. 200%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 XiTech Corp. 98%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 DynaVox Systems Inc. 85%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 B.E.A. Inc. 78%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Synergistic Technologies Inc. 60%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 E-Transport Inc. 60%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Microbac Laboratories 58%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 $ 25 million-to-$ 100 million % change
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Computer Enterprises Inc. 306%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Solutions Consulting Inc. 236%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 UBICS Inc. 233%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Ansoft Corp. 202%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 McKessonHBOCAutomated Healthcare 181%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Contraves Brashear Systems LP 126%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Compunetics Inc. 78%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Management Science Associates Inc. 54%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 intelitrancq 37%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 II-VI Inc. 38%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 $ 100 million+ % change
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 RAPIDIGM 193%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Mastech Corp. 142%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The IT Group 139%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Adtranz North America 108%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Pittsburgh Logistics Systems Inc. 105%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Cable Design Technologies Corp. 82%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 FORE Systems Inc. 59%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Fiserv Inc. 55%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 TRACO 53%
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Respironics Inc. 49%
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 CHART, CHART: Pittsburgh Technology Council, based on 1998 revenues
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0October 22, 1999
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 STAYING POWER;
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8232 
\f0\i\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2  VETERAN FIRMS WELL REPRESENTED IN THIS YEAR'S TOP TECH 50
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 September 27, 2002 Friday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION\'a0 Correction Appended
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS,
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0719 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0STEVE MASSEY, POST-GAZETTE ASSOCIATE EDITOR
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 At a time when even the words "start-ups" and "new technology" cause investors to sweat, it's worth noting that many of this year's winners in the Pittsburgh Technology Council's annual look at the region's 50 leading high-tech firms are wizened veterans of the business world.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  There was North Huntingdon-based Extrude Hone Corp., which makes equipment to improve machining and finishing manufacturing and has been around since 1966.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  There was Medrad Inc., the Indianola maker of medical imaging equipment that's even older -- it was founded in 1964.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  But Extrude Hone and Medrad are whippersnappers compared with LLI Technologies Inc., the great-grandfather of the bunch. Founded in 1910 when it was known as Hunting-Davis Co., the Downtown-based provider of engineering design and technical services ranked among the top 10 local companies that provide services that help high-tech firms survive and grow.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 In fact, among the Hawaiian-shirted crowd of 500 who gathered last night at Carnegie Music Hall in a "Hawaii Five-O" theme, were several relative geezers.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Nine were founded before 1980, when the words "high tech" hadn't fully entered the American lexicon, and 20 were more than 10 years old -- ancient to many techies.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  The comparatively high number of "old" high-tech stars wasn't entirely surprising. That's because the council, along with accounting firm PriceWaterhouseCoopers, changed the criteria for choosing winners in a way that better reflected the works of those that have been steady performers over the years -- not just flashes in the pan.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Unlike past years, when revenue growth was the main criteria, it and related financial measures only accounted for a fifth of the score this year. Innovation, corporate citizenship, job growth and retention and customer satisfaction received equal attention.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  "We're confident we've adopted a best-practices standard," said council spokesman Kevin Lane.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  To be sure, youthful stars still represented the majority of this year's winners, the youngest being Corporate Solutions and Fidelity Flight Simulation Inc., both of which were founded last year and employ six and five, respectively.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  They were among the 10 so-called Rising Stars, companies incorporated in the last three years that exhibit potential and offer unique and promising products and services.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  As for the chief executive officer of the year, James Cashman III is an industry veteran even though he's only been at the helm of Ansys Inc., the 22-year-old Canonsburg-based supplier of analytical and engineering software for product design, since early 2000.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Cashman has worked at Ansys and other technology companies for 26 years.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  TECH 50 WINNERS
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  ADVANCED MANUFACTURING
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  No. 1. Extrude Hone Corp.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Headquarters:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  North Huntingdon
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Employees: 250
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Develops and makes equipment for machining, finishing and measurement purposes.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Others category winners:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  American Made LLC
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  ASI Robicon
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Brashear LP
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Clark Metal Products Co.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Automation Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Ebara Solar Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  MetPlas Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Oberg Industries Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Ranbar Technology Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  BIOMEDICAL
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  No. 1: Medrad Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Headquarters: Indianola
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Employees: 930
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Makes medical imaging equipment
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Other category winners:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  ALung Technologies Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Cellomics Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  McKesson Automation
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Med3000
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Neo Gen Screening
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Net Health Systems Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  ProlX Pharmaceuticals Corp.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  TissueInformatics Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  No. 1: Confluence
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Technologies
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Headquarters: Oakland
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Employees: 33
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Makes databases that automate end-of-the-day data for financial institutions.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Other category winners:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  AEC Industries Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Ansoft Corp.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Ansys Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Compunetix Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  FreeMarkets Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Innovate E-Commerce Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Plan4Demand Solutions Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Red Square Systems
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  TrueFit Solutions Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  SERVICE PROVIDER
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  No. 1: Fitting Group
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Headquarters: Downtown
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Employees: 13
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Marketing and communications concern
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Other category winners:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Allin Corp.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Apar Infotech Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Black Box Corp.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Ditto Document Services Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  FastForward Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  LLI Technologies Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Premier Technologies Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Rapidigm Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  TOPS Staffing LLC
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  RISING STARS
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  No. 1: A2Zmoonlighter.com
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Headquarters: Bloomfield
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Employees: 8
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Provides free-lance and contract talent on the Web
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Other category winners:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Axsys Technologies Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Corporate Solutions
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Eidoserve
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Fidelity Flight Simulation Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  iMeet Inc.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Red Square Systems
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  SmartOps
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  3 Rivers Connect
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20  Vanguard Protection Services
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs28 Notes
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Steve Massey can be reached at 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 smassey@post-gazette.com
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  or 412-263-1174.  
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Correction
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 2002.< Corporate Solutions Inc., a Forest Hills-based consulting firm, employs 29, not six as stated in a story Friday on the Pittsburgh Technology Council's annual ranking of the region's 50 leading high-tech firms.
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Correction-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0October 1, 2002
\f3\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Graphic
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 PHOTO: Robert J. Pavuchak/Post-Gazette: James E. Cashman III, the head of Canonsburg-based Ansys Inc., was named Chief Executive Officer of the Year by the Pittsburgh Technology Council.\'a0
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0  CHART: Pittsburgh Technology Council: Tech 50 winners.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0October 1, 2002
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 TECH 50 AWARDS NOMINEES SELECTED
\f1\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 July 21, 2011 Thursday
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 SOONER EDITION
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Section:
\f2\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; Pg. C-2
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Length:
\f2\b0 \'a0366 words
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs20 Byline:
\f2\b0 \'a0DEBORAH M. TODD, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 In recognition of the 15th year of the Tech 50 Awards, the Pittsburgh Technology Council stepped up its own technological efforts Wednesday when announcing the finalists.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The awards honor the Pittsburgh region's fastest growing and most innovative tech companies.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 About 15 corporate sponsors gathered in the PTC Resource Room, at the council's offices in South Oakland, to hear the announcement of this year's Tech 50 finalists, while 60 more people watched via webcast for the first time through Concert-Oh, a Monroeville-based Web teleconferencing company. The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette is a media sponsor for the Tech 50 Awards.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 The Technology Council also unveiled a video contest that encourages companies to download amateur videos about their offices to YouTube. The top three videos will be judged during the Tech 50 awards in September, where attendees will vote for winners via text message.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 In a final touch, the council introduced a customized website and texting campaign for Tech 50 announcements at 
\f5\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://tech50.pghtech.org
\f2\i0 \cf0 \ulnone .
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Award winners will be announced during a celebration event at Consol Energy Center on Sept. 20. The finalists are:
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Advanced Manufacturer
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Industrial Scientific Corp., Kennametal, RE2, US Liner Co.
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Information Technology
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Confluence, Eyeflow LLC, M*Modal, Vivisimo
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Innovator
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Allpoint Systems LLC, Body Media, Bossa Nova Robotics, Dynamics, Ex One, Modcloth, Omnyx, Thorley Industries dba 4moms, Voci Technologies
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Life Sciences
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CardiacAssist, Cohera Medical, Complexa, Foundation Radiology Group, invivodata, McKesson Automation, Net Health Systems, Precision Therapeutics
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Startup
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Aquion Energy, Carmell Therapeutics Corp., C-leveled, Deeplocal, Evil Genius Designs, Intimate Bridge to Conception, Metis Secure Solutions, SnapRetail, Songwhale, Thermal Therapeutics Systems, Wombat Security Technologies
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Tech Titan
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Ansaldo STS USA, ANSYS, Concurrent Technologies Corp., FedEx Ground, TeleTracking Technologies
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Technology Accelerator
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 AEC Group, 
\f0\i\b \ul Data Science
\f2\i0\b0 \ulnone  Automation, SDLC Partners, Sierra w/o Wires, Summa Technologies
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 CEO of the Year
\f3\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 Patrick Daly of Cohera Medical, Jeff Kendall of Liberty Tire Recycling, Justin McElhattan of Industrial Scientific Corp., Chris Robbins of Body Media
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f2\b0 \'a0July 22, 2011
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
}